---
layout: post
title:  "Eng Words"
date:   2022-03-31 13:27:10 +0900
categories: study
---




{% highlight ruby %}


*For improving english skill  

*day10-facilitate immerse bustling(vvv) boon steadfast questioning scatter attest fortify subtraction as-a-rule-of-thumb relay  
    scrupulous(vvv) repel repellent 
    -adapt impute(vvv) refer vent(vvv) belittle conspicuous(v) procure earn unwavering(vv) resolute(vv) dainty(vv) dispute(vv)  
    take-a-critical-look-at(vv) suspicious dissipate(v) makeshift(v) transitory(v) withdraw(v) ravage deduction obscure(v) impart(v)  
    cloud(vv) fastidious(vv) meticulous(vv) derivation(v) stick cleave cling dispose-of drive-away beat-off repulsive(v) perceptible  
    -expendable-extendable optimum-most-favorable  
*day9-tremulous breakthrough inducement irreversible comprise culmination culminate allegiance  
    idiosyncrasy minute markedly dissemiate(v) detrimental(v) presume anarchy derive sole embellish  
    antagonize yearn(vv) renounce(v) keep-in-check subsistence(v) emerge(v) equivocal(v) oversee presumable  
    calculatedly deviation(v) hairline formulate astute(v) reliable take-precedence-over allusion(v) delusion rebellion  
    -commence trembling lure irreparable irrevocable irremediable encompass pinnacle fidelity commitment peculiarity  
    eccentricity diminutive existing injurious pernicious wind meander single solitary adorn aggravate counteract long pine  
    sympathize compassion deficiency reject relinquish restrain loom spring-up come-out specify designate appoint  
    vague obscure emit give-off discharge exude superintend uneven rugged bumpy coarse hinder rule-out exclude   
    probable likely possible departure divergence aberration forge shrewd sharp dependable implication suggestion  
    illusion uprising revolt  
*day8-proliferate electric intricate potent potency extract coarse-through inadvertently arduous  
    feat demise immensely profuse insolent shoddy whereby ardent be-accompanied-by  
    -appraise incitement incentive prompt vital acute tangled unwittingly strenuous exploit strife  
    loom candidly defer preclude impede avert superfluous wordy copious lavish adorn embellish  
    instantiate gluttonous amend ameliorate swelling impertinent impudent reiterate imbibe soak-up  
    fervent defunct  
*day7-unwieldy extended ephemeral controversy lag exude precede acute article recompense reflect   
    rudiments mortal turmoil majestic variety subject  
    -peril jeopardy awkward facilitate execute work-out put-through situate linger dawdle give-off reciprocity   
    come-before antecede forerun parched repayment compensation meditate ponder lethal fatal clumsy  
    oblige bind unrest agitation stir august foremost multiplicity diminish cut participant expose abscond  
*day6-invariable assimilate altercation account surmise imposing plague deteriorate inflict propel 
    contemplate representative  
    -dissipate disseminate blemish pliable compelling inquiring ramification importance signification  
    delude disengage unconcern indifferent  description report narrative endorse deft adroit proficient  
    accommodate vestige affect form influence exact impel reproduce delegate  
*day5-compelling incompatible inordinate disputatious tenuous viable impediment vacate enact  
with-regard-to turbulent appraisal proponent  
    -cogent discrepant pursue essay fuse loom remnant astounding employment slim faint exorbitant 
    undue commence epitome pretend assume surmise worsen incoherent unpaid verify support  
    contentious quarrelsome manifold extirpate gain-impetus sterile pungent plausible strange  
    ascribable-to agitated tumultuous adherent partisan unqualified  
*day4-readily, advocate, utterly, abound, formidable, disband, alleged, versatile, prohibitive, inherent,  
justify, provoke, impermeable, forestall, proximity, dependable, ensuing, appreciably, wholesale, tacit,  
merit, appeal, fastidious, contraction, intermingled, succulent, practically  
    -teem, disperse, eminent, exorbitant, congenital, incite, impervious, hinder, avert, induce, coerce,  
     compel, constrain, settle, virtue, coalesce, discord, breach, plead, choosy, diminution, secluded, 
     pulpy, epoch, menace   
*day3-spontaneous, cast about, rigorous, largely, repudicate, alternate, tentativeness, fragmentary  
*day2-implausible, conspicuous, susceptible to, obsolete, conceivable, discrepancy  
*day1-extant, sedentary, stunted, encroachment  

{% endhighlight %}



# day 11  


*1. plausible  
*1. possible, believable, likely, probable  
**The story seemed plausible, but witnesses said it was untrue.  
**그럴듯한  


*2. transform  
*2. convert, change, alter  
**Generators transform physical energy into electrical energy.  
**변형시키다, 바꾸다  


*3. counterpart  
*3. complement, equivalent  
**Medieval religious books often included beautiful illustrations as a counterpart to the written text.  
**한 쪽, 동등한 것  


*4. nevertheless  
*4. in spite of that, however, still, yet, nonetheless  
**Beagles make excellent pets. Nevertheless, they can become unruly without proper training.  
**그럼에도 불구하고  


*5. pronounced  
*5. notable, striking, marked, significant, noticeable, distinct, strong  
**The development of agricultural pesticides led to a pronounced increase in crop yields.  
**현저한  


*6. celebrated  
*6. famous, renowned, well-known  
**General Sherman's march to the sea was probably the most celebrated military coampaign in US history.  
**유명한  


*7. exceedingly  
*7. highly, extremely, excessively, hugely  
**Prior to the 2008 economic crisis, real estate prices had become exceedingly expensive.  
**대단히  


*8. chancy  
*8. risky, perilous, dangerous  
**Climbing Mt. Everest is chancy, as many people die on the mountain every year.  
**위험한  


*9. vertical  
*9. upright, up-and-down, erect  
**The three vertical bands of the French flag symbolize liberty, equality, and brotherhood.  
**수직의  


*10. persist  
*10. continue, last, endure, remain  
**Fears persisted even after weather forecasters declared that the hurricane would not come ashore.  
**지속되다  


*11. magnitude  
*11. extent, size, degree, measure, amount  
**The magnitude of an earthquake is measured on the Richter scale.  
**규모, 정도  


*12. discern  
*12. identify, detect, distinguish  
**A leader must be able to discern the best course of action for the group.  
**파악하다, 알아내다  


*12-1. discerning  
*12-1. astute, perceptive  
**통찰력 있는  


*13. generate  
*13. produce, create  
**To generate enough electricity for the countryside, the mayor had 200 wind turbines built.  
**만들어 내다  


*14. eccentric  
*14. unusual, bizarre, peculiar, odd  
**Vaudeville actors typically wore eccentric costumes on statge.  
**별난, 특이한  


*15. alternative  
*15. substitutive, different  
*15. substitute, choice, option  
**The city encouraged people to take alternative means of transportation to help reduce traffic congestion.  
**Applesauce can be a good non-dairy alternative for eggs when baking.  
**대안이 되는, 다른  
**대안  


*16. stratege  
*16. plan, method, scheme  
**The strategy of some predators is to camouflage themselves and wait perfectly still for hours.  
**전략, 방법  


*17. refine  
*17. improve, perfect  
**The writing tutor suggested ways for the student to refine his essay and garner a better grade.  
**개선하다  



*18. precious  
*18. valuable, dear, priceless  
**The colonies were forced into providing precious metals to the mother country.  
**귀중한  


*19. subtle  
*19. hard to recognize, hardly perceived, slight  
**The signs of dishonesty are so subtle that they often go undetected.  
**미묘한, 감지하기 어려운  


*20. conducive to  
*20. favorable to, helpful for, beneficail to  
**Energetic teachers and fun lessons are conducive to student learning.   
**~에 도움이 되는  


*21. preoccupied with  
*21. concentrated on, absorbed in, immersed in  
**The crock made his getaway while officials were preoccupied with the fire he started.  
**~에 몰두한  


*22. swift  
*22. quick, speedy, fleet  
**With a swift movement, Maggie stood upright.  
**재빠른  


*23. menace  
*23. threaten, intimidate, frighten  
**The thief menaced the neighborhood for weeks before being caught.  
**위협하다  


*24. akin to  
*24. similar to, like  
**Ukrainians are culturally and racially akin to Russians.  
**~과 유사한  


*25. expend  
*25. use, use up, spend, consume  
**Athletes expend more energy in hot and humid weather, so they are likely to feel tired more quciekly.  
**쓰다  


*25-1. expand  
*25-1. enlarge, increase  
**확장하다  


*26. belittle  
*26. disregard, underestimate  
**Jane did not realize that she was belittling her colleagues by constantly interrupting them.  
**경시하다  


*27. commend  
*27. admire, praise, compliment  
**The general commended the soldiers for their bravery during the battle.  
**칭찬하다  


*27-1. command  
*27-1. order, dictate  
**명령  


*28. sue  
*28. take a strong legal action against, charge  
**The company sued its supplier for breach of contract.  
**고소하다  


*29. innovation  
*29. new development, novelty, new idea  
**Built-in cameras and web browsing capabilities are amazing innovations in cellular phone technology.  
**혁신, 새로 도입한 것  


*30. fragmentation  
*30. destruction, disintegration, disruption  
**The Cultural Revolution in China caused a fragmentation of societal ideals.  
**붕괴, 분열  


*31. mainly  
*31. principally, generally, primarily, cheifly  
**In California, rain occurs mainly during the winter months.  
**주로  


*32. sufficient  
*32. enough, adequate, ample  
**For most healthy adults, a few days of rest is sufficient to get over a cold.  
**충분한  


*33. abnormally  
*33. unusually, oddly, exceptionally, atypically  
**An abnormally rapid heart rate may indicate a serious health problem.  
**이례적으로, 이상하게  


*34. barrier  
*34. bar, obstacle, obstruction  
**The mountains form a natural barrier between the two countries.  
**a bar to effective communication  
**장벽, 장애물  



*35. gigantic  
*35. huge, immense, colossal  
**The gigantic thunderstorm in Japan was much more serious than anyone had anticipated.  
**거대한  


*36. reproduce  
*36. copy, duplicate, imitate  
*36. breed, multiply, propagate  
**The director sometimes reproduces others' styles as homage to their work.  
**All living organisms need to reproduce to keep their species alive.  
**복제하다, 모사하다  
**번식하다  


*37. allow  
*37. enable, permit, let  
**Farmers allowed firefighters to use water from their ponds to put out the wildfire.  
**허락하다  


*38. penetrate  
*38. pierce, go through, enter  
**A large iceberg penetrated the Titanic's steel frame and caused the ship to sink.  
**꿰뚫다  


*39. device  
*39. mechanism, apparatus, appliance  
**The smartphone is one of the most useful devices for communication.  
**장치, 기구  


*40. divergent  
*40. varying, different, dissimilar  
**In the debate, the political candidates discussed their divergent views.  
**다른, 갈라지는  


*41. flaw  
*41. defect, fault, blemish, shortcoming  
**In the play Cyrano De Bergerac, the protagonist's most obvious flaw is his grotesque nose.  
**결점  


*42. buffer  
*42. protect, cushion  
**Installing thick windwos in your home will buffer against the cold weather.  
**완화하다, 보호하다  


*43. refute  
*43. disprove, rebut, prove false  
**Galileo refuted the theory that the Earth was at the center of the universe.  
**논박하다  


*44. domestic  
*44. household, home, family  
**If both the husband and wife work, they should share the domestic chores.  
**가정의  


*44-1. domesticate  
*44-1. tame, train  
**길들이다, 사육하다  


*45. on the spur of the moment  
*45. without planning, on impulse  
**On the spur of the moment, Lucy and Henry drove to the beach to enjoy the unexpectedly warm day.  
**충동적으로  


*46. temperate  
*46. moderate, mild, clement  
**Fruits such as apples and pears grow in theperate climates.  
**온화한  


*47. consistent with  
*47. in agreement with, congruent with  
**Erica chose a major that was consistent with her goal of being a doctor.  
**~과 일치하는  


*48. splendor  
*48. magnificence, grandeur, majesty  
**The splendor of the massive statues on Easter Island impressed early European explorers.  
**장려함, 화려함  


*49. prosper  
*49. succeed, flourish, thrive  
**Careful planning and good opportunities can help a business prosper.  
**번창하다, 성공하다  


*50. brew  
*50. develop, loom, be on the way  
**Meteorologists use radar and satellite imaging to determine whether a typhoon is brewing.  
**일어나려고 하다  


*51. persevere  
*51. continue, carry on, persist  
**Despite his injury, the marathon runner persevered until the end of the race.  
**인내하며 계속하다  


*51-1. preserve  
*51-1. protect, conserve  
**보호하다, 보존하다  


*52. bias  
*52. prejudice  
**Some nutiritionists have a strong bias against genetically modified food.  
**편견  


*53. administer  
*53. manage, supervise, conduct  
*53. give, provide  
**An external consultant has been hired to administer the large goernmental grant.  
**It's crucial to double-check the dosage of the medication before you administer it.  
**관리하다  
**주다, 투여하다  


*54. groundless  
*54. unfounded, baseless  
**Although Sarah knew her fear of the dark was grounless, she still used a nightlight.  
**근거 없는  


*55. arouse  
*55. stimulate, provoke, incite  
*55. awake  
**The strange sight in the distance aroused Watson's curiosity, so he moved closer to get a better look.  
**arouse Jane from sleep  
**자극하다  
**잠에서 깨우다  


*56. occupy  
*56. engross, engage, absorb  
**Basic needs, such as food and shelter, occupied the minds of early humans.  
**(주의-마음을) 끌다  


*57. virtual  
*57. amlost complete  
**A further reduction in the size of the Arctic ice cap is a virtual certainty.  
**거의 ~과 다름없는, 사실상의  


*58. unexplored  
*58. uncovered  
**The student wrote a paper on some of the unexplored aspects of social media.  
**다루어지지 않은, 논의되지 않은  


*59. tuned to  
*59. in agreement with  
**An employee who is tuned to the goals of management is more likely to be promoted.  
**~과 일치된  













# day 10  


*1. modify  
*1. change, alter, adjust, adapt  
**Many software settings can be modified to improve the performance of a computer.   
**바꾸다, 조정하다.  


*2. initially  
*2. at first, originally, primarily  
**Ben initially supported Roger’s plan, but later opposed it.  
**처음에  


*3. critical  
*3. important, crucial, essential  
*3. dangerous, risky  
**Air traffic controllers must make critical decisions every day that affect the lives of many people.  
**The patient's adverse reaction to the medicine caused his heart rate to drop to a critical level.  
**중요한  
**위독한, 위험한  


*4. luminous  
*4. brilliant, bright, shining, glowing  
*4. clear, explicit  
**The luminous object that appeared over Europe in AD 1066 was Halley's Comet.  
**a concise and luminous explanation  
**빛나는  
**명쾌한  


*5. facilitate  
*5. ease, make easy, help, assist, aid  
**Freedom of information laws facilitate access to government documents for researchers.  
**용이하게 하다  


*6. refinement  
*6. small improvement, advancement, enhancement  
**For 14 years, Alfred Wegener made numerous refinements to his theory of continental drift.  
**개선  


*7. attribute  
*7. charcateristic, trait, quality, property  
*7. ascribe, credit, impute, refer  
**The prime minister's ability to speak eloquently is considered one of his greatest attributes.  
**The world's increase in energy use can be attributed to the population growth.  
**특성  
**~의 탓(덕)으로 돌리다   


*8. belch  
*8. suddenly emit, discharge, erupt, vent  
**Volcanoes can belch toxic fumes without warning.  
**분출하다  


*9. underrate  
*9. undervalue, underestimate, belittle  
**Many parents underrate the importance of playing with their children.  
**과소평가하다  


*10. immense  
*10. large, enormous, huge, tremendous  
**The immense statue of the Greek goddess Athena attracted many tourists to thee Acropolis.  
**거대한  


*10-1. immerse  
*10-1. bury, submerge  
**담그다, 파묻다  


*11. virtue  
*11. goodness  
*11. merit, desirable quality, strength  
**Accoring to legend, King Arthur was both a great warrior and a man of virtue.  
**A virtue shared by all great leaders is the ability to motivate others.  
**미덕  
**장점  


*12. bustling  
*12. busy, lively  
*12. rush, hasten  
**During the summer, the sidewalks and shops near the beach are bustling with people.  
**붐비는, 떠들썩한  
**서두르다  


*13. distinct  
*13. different, separate, discrete  
*13. definite, clear and recognizable  
**Each region of Italy maintains its own distinct traditions.  
**There was a distinct difference in the twins' personalities.  
**다른, 별개의  
**뚜렷한  


*14. thriving  
*14. prosperous, successful, flourishing  
**Our town used to be very small, but it has grown into a thriving community.  
**번영하는  


*15. obvious  
*15. evident, clear, apparent, conspicuous  
**It was obvious that Fred didn't understand what Wilma meant.  
**분명한  


*16. exceptional  
*16. extraordinary, aabnormal, unusual  
**The Ancient Greek Olympians displayed an exceptional amout of strength and endurance.  
**이례적인  


*17. cumbersome  
*17. difficult to handle, burdensome, awkward  
**Although the cultivator looks cumbersome, it is actually easy to use.  
**다루기 힘든  


*18. boon  
*18. great benefit, advantage  
**Due to so many people purchasing gifts, the Christmas season is always a boon to retail stores.  
**큰 이익, 혜택  


*18-1. boom  
*18-1. flourish, thrive  
**갑자기 번창하다   


*19. optimum  
*19. best, most favorable, supreme  
**Machines achieve optimum performance when they are properly maintained and regularly used.  
**최고의  


*20. uniformly  
*20. evenly, regularly, consistently  
**If the paint is not spread uniformly on the wall, there will be variations in color when it dries.  
**균일하게, 한결같이  


*21. unleash  
*21. release, unloose  
**We took our dogs to the fenced park so that we could unleash them and let them run free.  
**풀다  


*22. acquire  
*22. obtain, gain, procure, earn  
**Some people acquired great wealth by investing in the stock market.  
**얻다  


*23. enigma  
*23. mystery, puzzle, riddle  
**Even today, the origin of Egypt's great pyramids is an enigma.  
**수수께끼  


*24. steadfast  
*24. unwavering, firm, enduring, resolute  
**It is the president's steadfast belief that Congress needs more women.  
**변함없는, 단호한  


*25. dainty  
*25. delicate, exquisite, refined  
**At the wedding, the decorations included thousands of dainty flowers.  
**우아한, 섬세한  


*26. anomaly  
*26. irregularity, abnormality, exception  
**Modern airplanes are very safe, so crashes are anomalies.  
**이례적인 것, 예외   


*27. splendid  
*27. marvelous, magnificent  
**The Palace of Versailles is a splendid example of French Architecture.  
**멋진  


*28. rapport  
*28. bond, relationship, link, tie  
**The friendly teacher had a strong rapport with his students.  
**관계  


*29. question  
*29. take a critical look at, dispute  
**Some people question the educational value of certain testing methods, such as multiple-choice exams.  
**~에 대해 이의를 제기하다  


*29-1. questioning  
*29-1. suspicious, doubtful  
**미심쩍어하는  


*30. scatter  
*30. disperse, dissipate, distribute, spread out, widely spread  
**The man scattered grass seeds all over the lawn.  
**흘뿌리다  


*31. escalate  
*31. intensify, increase, mount, rise  
**The demonstration quickly escalated when a protestor threw a glass bottle at the police.  
**확대되다, 증대하다.  


*32. temporary  
*32. short-lived, makeshift, for a limited time, transitory  
**The pill caused a few temporary side effects.  
**일시적인  


*33. attest  
*33. confirm, support, prove  
**Three witnesses signed the will to attest its authenticity.  
**증명하다, 입증하다  


*34. fortify  
*34. strengthen, reinforce  
**To prepare for war, the general had his mem fortify the walls of the fort.  
**강화하다  


*35. remove  
*35. eliminate, extract, withraw  
**A plastic surgeon can remove scars using a laser.  
**제거하다  


*36. end  
*36. purpose, goal, aim  
*36. limit, boundary  
**The end of the project is to increase agricultural yields in Sub-Saharan Africa.  
**the end of one's tolerance  
**목적, 목표  
**한계  


*37. plentiful  
*37. abundant, bountiful, rich  
**Fish and plankton are plentiful in the sea.  
**풍부한  


*38. make it  
*38. arrive  
*38. get on, succeed.  
**Despite the traffic congestion downtown, all the fans managed to make it on time for the concert.  
**make it as a singer  
**(제시간에)도착하다  
**성공하다  


*39. devastate  
*39. destroy, demolish, ravage, ruin  
**The logging industry has devastated many tropical rainforests in South America.  
**완전히 파괴하다  


*40. eminently  
*40. exceptionally, highly, extremely  
**The city's new subway system is eminently practical.  
**대단히, 현저히  


*41. subtraction  
*41. decrease, deduction, reduction  
**Many teachers opposed the subtraction of funds for art and music.  
**삭감, 공제  


*42. as a rule of thumb  
*42. in general  
**As a rule of thumb, people should visit the dentist for a check-up every six months.  
**경험적으로 보아 대개  


*43. blur  
*43. make less distinct, obscure, cloud  
**The new political party blurred the lines between conservatives and liberals.  
**흐리게 하다  


*44. relay  
*44. transfer, communicate, trasmit, impart  
**In the 19th century, news reports were relayed by telegram.  
**전달하다  

*45. expandable  
*45. able to be enlarged, extendable  
**The dining room table is expandable to accommodate dinner guests.  
**펼칠 수 있는, 확장할 수 있는  


*45-1. expendable  
*45-1. dispensable, unnecessary  
**필요 없는  


*46. scrupulous  
*46. careful, fastidious, meticulous  
*46. honest, moral  
**The police officer was praised for his scrupulous performance of duties.  
**A scrupulous real estate agent does not charge clients excessive fees.  
**세심한, 꼼꼼한  
**양심적인  


*47. approximately  
*47. about, roughly, nearly  
**Approximately 25 percent of the world's electricity is used by the US alone.  
**대략  


*48. paradoxical  
*48. seemingly contradictory, ironic  
**Einstein thought that using violence to restore peace was paradoxical.  
**역설적인  


*49. source  
*49. origin, beginning, derivation  
**Located in central Africa, Lake Victoria is the source of the Nile River.  
**근원, 기원  


*50. adhere  
*50. stick, cleave, cling  
**The glue that covers a stamp's back allows it to adhere to an envelope.  
**부착되다, 달라붙다  


*51. available  
*51. accessible, obtainable  
**Books were available to the masses for the first time with the invetion of Gutenberg's printing press.  
**구할 수 있는  


*52. get rid of  
*52. eliminate, remove, dispose of  
**Meditation has become a popular way for people to get rid of stress.  
**~을 없애다  


*53. repel  
*53. drive away, beat off  
**The high walls of Medieval castles made it easy to repel attackers.  
**물리치다  


*53-1. repellent  
*53-1. disgusting, repulsive  
**혐오감을 주는  


*54. maximize  
*54. increase to the greatest possible degree  
**Manufacturers set prices for their products that will maximize their potential profits.  
**극대화하다  


*55. outermost  
*55. farthest away, farthest, most remote  
**Neptune is the outermost planet in the solar system.  
**가장 바깥의  


*56. bind  
*56. fie, fasten  
**For hygiene reasons, restaurant employees with long hair must bind it before they start work.  
**묶다  


*57. visible  
*57. perceptible  
**The symptoms of the life-threatening disease may not be visible for several years after infection.  
**눈에 띄는, 명백한  













# day 9  


*1. initiate  
*1. start, begin, originate, commence  
**The governemtn has initiated several new welfare policies to assistn the poor.  
**시작하다  


*2. tremendous  
*2. great, large, gigantic, huge  
**The Arab-Israeli conflict has had a tremendous impact on the world economy.  


*2-1. tremulous  
*2-1. trembling, vibrating  
**떨리는  


*3. breakthrough  
*3. advance, progress 
**The discovery of a cure for AIDS would be a huge breakthrough for modern medicine.  
**큰 발전  


*4. cope with  
*4. deal with, manage, handle  
**The soccer players coped with heavy rain and a muddy field as they played the game.  
**~을 대처하다, ~을 다루다  


*5. inducement  
*5. incentive, incitement, lure  
**The research shows that the greatest inducement to productivity in the workplace is managerial style.  
**유인책, 장려  


*6. irreversible  
*6. irreparable, irrevocable, irremediable  
**Long exposure to freezing temperatures can cause irreversible demage to skin.  
**돌이킬 수 없는  


*7. comprise  
*7. include, encompass  
*7. consist of, be made up of, be composed of  
**The textbook comprises a large number of detailed illustrations and charts.  
**The Dow Jones Industrial Average comprises thirty of the largest companies in the US.  
**포함하다  
**~으로 구성되다  


*8. culmination  
*8. high point, apex, pinnacle  
**Being promoted to company president was the culmination of Timothy's 20-year career.  
**정점, 최고조  


*8-1. culminate  
*8-1. end, finish, terminate  
**끝나다  


*9. allegiance  
*9. loyalty, fidelity, commitment, dedication  
**Immigrants must promise their allegiance to their new country.  
**충성, 헌선  


*10. notable  
*10. remarkable, outstanding, important  
**Professor Dixon's notable achievements in academia earned him the repect and admiration of his colleagues.  
**주목할 만한, 중요한  


*11. idiosyncrasy  
*11. peculiarity, eccentricity, oddity  
**An idiosyncrasy of modern life is that people are busier than ever despite technology.  
**특징, 이상한 점  


*12. minute  
*12. tiny, very small, diminutive   
**Bacteria are so minute that they can only be observed using a microscope.  
**아주 작은  


*13. markedly  
*13. significantly, noticeably, considerably, substantially  
**The Moon's density is markedly less than the Earth's  
**현저하게   


*14. phenomenon  
*14. occurrence, incident  
**The Great Red Spot on Jupiter is one of many natural phenomena that fascinate astronomers.  
**현상, 사건(복수형:phenomena)  


*15. disseminate  
*15. spread, disperse, distribute  
**The rumor about Kate's mysterious absence was disseminated by word of mouth.  
**퍼뜨리다  


*16. current  
*16. present, existing  
**If one wants to see the current trends in fashion, there is no better place to visit than Paris.  
**현재의  


*17. detrimental  
*17. harmful, injurious, damaging, pernicious  
**Drinking and smoking have been proven to be detrimental to health.  
**해로운  



*18. presume  
*18. believe, accept as true  
**Biologists presume that a massive asteroid was responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs.  
**~이라고 생각하다, 추정하다  


*19 anarchy  
*19 disorder, chaos, disorganization  
**During the protests, anarchy filled the city's streets.  
**무질서, 혼란  


*20. snake  
*20. wind, meander, curve, twist  
**The highway snakes thruogh the mountains and has many incredible views along the way.  
**구불구불 가다  


*21. sophisticated  
*21. complex, highly developed  
*21. cultured, refined  
**A more sophisticated apporach was needed to solve the problem.  
**sophisticated styles and tastes  
**정교한, 고도로 발달한  
**세련된  


*22. derive  
*22. originate, trace, obtain, gain  
**The name of Colorado's Pueblo County is derived from the Spanish word for "village."  
**유래하다, 얻다  


*23. sole  
*23. only, single, solitary  
**In the movie, the sole survivor of a plane crash learns to live on a deserted island.  
**유일한  


*24. embellish  
*24. decorate, make attractive, adorn, beautify, ornament  
**Louis XIV embellished his palaces with luxurious furniture.  
**장식하다  


*25. antagonize  
*25. anger, aggravate, counteract  
**The author antagonized her critics by writing angry response to reviews on her website.  
**~의 반감을 사다, 대항하다  


*26. yearn  
*26. long, desire, crave, pine  
*26. sympathize, feel, compassion  
**After more than a decade of war, everyone in the two countries yearned for peace.  
**yearn over the poor
**갈망하다  
**동정하다  


*27. permit  
*27. allow, let, approve  
**Visitors to national parks are not permitted to have campfires during the dry season.  
**허락하다  


*28. scarcity  
*28. lack, shortage, insufficiency, deficiency  
**A scarcity of fish damaged the seaside town's economy.  
**부족  


*29. renounce  
*29. give up, reject, relinquish  
**Monks renounce material possessions and live a very simple life  
**포가하다, 버리다  


*30. keep in check  
*30. limit, control, restrict, restrain  
**If government spending is not kept in check, ecnomic problems will result.  
**제어하다, 억제하다  


*31. subsistence  
*31. survival, existence, living  
**Early humans relied on hunting as their primary menas of subsistence.  
**생존  


*32. annually  
*32. each year, yearly, every year  
**Interest on the bank loan is usually calculated annually.  
**매년  


*33. emerge  
*33. appear, loom, spring up, come out, develop  
**Every 17 years, cicadas emerge by the millions in North America.  
**나타나다  


*34. customary  
*34. habitual, traditional, typical, accustomed  
**It is customary to burn an American flag when it becomes torn.  
**습관적인, 관례적인  


*35. widely  
*35. extensively, broadly  
**Franz Schubert's compositions did not become widely known until many years after his death.  
**널리  


*36. assign  
*36. specify, designate, appoint  
**The teacher assigned a seat to each student.  
**지정하다  


*37. equivocal  
*37. ambiguous, vague, obscure, uncertain  
**The president was criticized for gibing equivocal responses about his immigration policy during an interview.  
**모호한  


*38. release  
*38. free, liberate, loose  
*38. emit, give off, discharge, exude  
**Johnson will be released from prison tomorrow.  
**The buring of fossil fuels releases poisonous gases into the air.  
**석방하다  
**방출하다  


*39. essentially  
*39. basically, fundamentally, primarily  
**Although Kelly is essentially content with her single life, she does occasionally consider starting a family.  
**기본적으로, 본질적으로  


*40. oversee  
*40. supervise, control, superintend  
**It is the job of the manager to oversee factory workers.  
**감독하다  


*41. rapidly  
*41. quickly, fast  
**Theodore's health declined rapidly, and in 1933, he died of cancer.  
**급속히, 빨리  


*42. acknowledge  
*42. recognize, admit, accept  
*42. appreciation, gratitude  
**The professor acknowledged the unrealistic deadline for the assignmnent and changed it.  
**인정하다  
**감사  


*43. rough  
*43. uneven, rugged, bumpy, coarse  
**The merchants completed the trip over the rough mountain road.  
**울퉁불퉁한, 거친  


*44. preclude  
*44. prevent, stop, hinder  
*44. rule out, exclude  
**According to Adam Smith, the feudal system precluded economic progress.  
**Sherlock Holmes always said that once you preclude all impossibilities, whatever is left is the answer.  
**막다  
**배제하다  


*45. portable  
*45. able to be carried, mobile, movable  
**Engineers are developing new portable medical devices that can be taken wherever you go.  
**휴대용의  


*46. presumable  
*46. probable, likely, possible  
**An undetected gas leak was the presumable cause of the explosion.  
**그럴듯한, 있음직한  


*47. calculatedly  
*47. deliberately, intentionally, knowingly  
**Spaces in the seminar have been calculatedly limited to facilitate more intimate discussions.  
**계획적으로  


*48. deviation  
*48. departure, divergence, aberration  
**Jenny is a talented skater and her poor performance in the competition was a deviation from the norm.  
**일탈  


*48-1. devotion  
*48-1. dedication, commitment  
**헌신  


*49. hairline  
*49. slight, thin  
**The contractor noted that the hairline cracks in the wall needed to be repaired before they got bigger.  
**아주 가느다란  


*50. formulate  
*50. develop, devise, forge  
*50. state, specify, express  
**The marketing department is formulating a plan to attract more clients.  
**The speaker formulated his ideas in clear and concise language that the audience understood easily.  
**고안하다, 발전시키다  
**명확히 말하다  


*51. astute  
*51. insightful, shrewd, clever, sharp  
**The professor was impressed with Daniel's astute observations about the poem.  
**통찰력 있는, 영악한  


*52. reliable  
*52. dependable, trustworthy, credible  
**Jane wanted to know if there was someone reliable in her life  
**신뢰할 수 있는  


*53. take precedence over  
*53. be more important than, come before  
**In a hospital embergency room, patients with severe trauma take precedence over people with minor injuries.  
**~보다 우선하다  


*54. allusion  
*54. reference, mention, implication, suggestion  
**During his presentation, the speaker made an allusion to one of the scenes in Shakespeares Macbeth.
**언급, 임시  


*54-1. delusion  
*54-2. illusion  
**망상  
**환상, 착각  


*55. locomotion  
*55. movement, motion  
**The invetion of the airplane took human locomotion to a higher level.  
**이동 능력  


*56. principally  
*56. mainly  
**Edgar Allen Poe principally wrote poems and short stories, although he did produce one play.  
**주로  


*57. rebellion  
*57. uprising, revolt  
**The rebellion of British colonists in North America led to the formation of the United States.  
**반란  


*58. revive  
*58. recover  
**The economy revived following an extended period of increased consumer spending.  
**회복하다, 소생하다  





# day 8
*1. furthermore  
*1. in addition, moreover  
**Using organic compost reduces the need for chemical fertilizers. Furthermore, it strengthens the soil.  
**게다가  


*2. proliferate  
*2. multiply, become numerous, increase in number  
**Mosquitoes proliferate faster and bite more as the air becomes warmer.  
**증식하다  


*3. assess  
*3. evaluate, estimate, judge, appraise  
**With the help of her counselors, Helen began to assess her life in a more positive way.  
**평가하다  


*3-1. access  
*3-1. approach, admission  
**접근, 입장  


*4. spur  
*4. stimulus, incitement, incentive  
*4. stimulate, prompt  
**The coach's speech was a much needed spur for the team.  
**The free trade agreement spurred economic development in the region.  
**자극  
**자극하다  


*5. electic  
*5. diverse, various, manifold  
**Social media sites reflect the eclectic opinions that exist in society today.  
**폭넓은, 다방면의  


*6. crucial  
*6. decisive, important, essential, vital, acute  
**Public opinion was the crucial factor in entering the war.  
**결정적인, 중대한  


*7. intricate  
*7. complex, complicated, elaborate, tangled  
**The exterior walls of the Aztec temple are covered with intricate designs.  
**복잡한  


*8. palatial  
*8. magnificent, grand, majestic, splendid  
**Many tourists visit Beverly Hills to see the palatial homes of celebrities.  
**웅장한, 대궐같은  


*9. potent  
*9. powerful, strong, influential  
**Scorpions have a stinger at the end of their tail, and it is a very potent weapon.  
**강력한  


*9-1. potency  
*9-1. efficacy  
**효능  


*10. extract  
*10. draw, derive, remove  
**Slaves were put to work on plantations to extract maximum harvests from the cotton fields.  
**끌어내다, 뽑아내다.  


*11. course through  
*11. run through  
**The Amazon River courses through the Brazilian rainforest.  
**~속을 흐르다.  


*12. criterion  
*12. standard, measure, norm  
**Criteria for graduate school admissions vary greatly depending on the university.  
**기준(복수형이 criteria)  


*13. enjoy  
*13. experience  
**The record company enjoyed an increase in album sales after it opened an online store.  
**재미를 보다, 즐겁게 경험하다  


*14. inadvertently  
*14. unintentionally, accidentally, unwittingly  
**Grace inadvertently deleted the accounting files from her computer.  
**무심코  


*15. peril  
*15. danger, jeopardy, hazard  
**Travelers who visit countries where sickness is common put themselves in peril.  
**위험  


*16. arduous  
*16. difficult, strenuous, laborious  
**Only 38 percent of climbers have been able to make the arduous trek to Annapurna's summit.  
**힘든   


*17. feat  
*17. achievement, accomplishment, exploit  
**The Taj Mahal is considered a remarkable feat of structural engineering.  
**위엄  


*18. friction  
*18. conflict, clash, discord, strife  
**Friction between Fracne and Germany existed before the start of World War I.  
**마찰, 불화  


*19. materialize  
*19. appear, emerge, loom  
**The people in the lifeboat were relieved when a ship materialized in the distance.  
**나타나다  


*19-1. material  
*19-1. substance, matter  
**물질  


*20. regulate  
*20. adjust, control  
**Mammals differ from other animals in the way they regulate body temperature.  
**조절하다   


*21. demise  
*21. end, fall, collapse, downfall  
**The Battle of Midway ensured the demise of the Japanese Empire.  
**종말, 몰락  


*22. frankly  
*22. honestly, openly, truthfully, candidly  
**In the interview, the celebrity spoke frankly about her recent personal problems.  
**솔직히  


*23. immensely  
*23. extremely, excessively, enormously, incredibly  
**The world's population grew immensely during the 20th century.  
**굉장히  


*24. deem  
*24. consider, regard, believe  
**The doctor deemed it necessary for the patient to undergo surgery immediately.  
**생각하다, 여기다  


*25. consumption  
*25. use, utilization  
**The consumption of drugs has increased in the country despite the government's best efforts to prevent it.  
**소비, 소모  



*26. suspend  
*26. hang, dangle, swing  
*26. defer, postpone  
**The worker suspended the lights from the ceiling of the building's lobby.  
**suspend the road construction  
**메달다  
**연기하다  


*27. prevent  
*27. preclude, avoid, impede, avert  
**The environmental bill prevents citizens from dumping garbage into the lake.  
**막다, 방해하다  


*28. authentic  
*28. genuine, true, real  
**The museum has a large collection of autenic artifacts from the late 1400s.  
**진짜의  


*29. redundant  
*29. superfluous, unnexcessary, wordy, repetitious  
**Students often make the mistake of including redundant information in their essays.  
**불필요한, 장황한  


*30. profuse  
*30. abundant, plentiful, copious, lavish  
**The old English sheepdog has a profuse coat of fur that keeps it warm in the winter.  
**풍부한  


*31. ornament  
*31. decorate, adorn, embellish  
**Timothy's house was ornamented with various flowers.  
**장식하다  


*32. demolish  
*32. destroy, wreck  
**Large hurricanes and typhoons can easily demolish entire cities.  
**파괴하다  


*33. voracious  
*33. insatiable, greedy, gluttonous  
**Because growing children can have voracious appetites, they may need to eat more often than most adults.  
**만족할 줄 모르는, 탐욕적인  


*33-1. veracious  
*33-1. truthful, honest  
**진실한  


*34. as well as  
*34. in addition to, not to mention  
**Florida is a popular tourist destination because it has a warm climate as well as beautiful beaches.  
**~뿐만 아니라  


*35. extreme  
*35. intense, severe, excessive  
**A polar bear's thick fur protects it from the extreme cold.   
**극심한, 지나친  


*36. reform  
*36. betterment  
*36. amend, improve, ameliorate  
**The protestors hoped that their actions would lead to reform.  
**The company would go bankrupt unless it refomrmed its spending.  
**개혁, 개선  
**개선하다, 개정하다  


*37. determinant  
*37. cause, factor  
**Unsanitary water is one major determinant for the spread of infectious diseases.  
**결정 요인  


*38. inclination  
*38. tendency, trend, preference, taste  
**The Mongols had little inclination to ally with other nomadic peoples of Northern Asia.  
**경향, 기호  


*39. inflation  
*39. expansion, swelling, enlargement  
**According to the theroy, the universe began a rapid fnlation follwing the Big Bang.  
**팽창  


*40. routine  
*40 ordinary, normal, conventional  
**Successful applicants avoid giving routine answers in interviews.  
**틀에 박힌, 평범한  


*41. accessible  
*41. reachable, able to be reached, obtainable  
**Eagles nest high on cliffs that are accessible by few predators.  
**접근할 수 있는, 얻을 수 있는  


*42. constituent  
*42. component, elemental  
*42. voter, elector  
**Carl Linnaeus conducted a great deal of research on the constituent parts of the human body.  
**support of the constituents  
**구성 요소의  
**유권자  


*43. insolent  
*43. impertinent, impudent, rude  
**The waiter's insolent attitude offended the customers in the resaurant.  
**무례한  


*44. to be sure  
*44. certainly, definitely, surely  
**To be sure, Shakespeare's contributions to the English language cannot be discounted.  
**틀림없이  


*45. broadly  
*45. generally, mostly  
**Broadly speaking, Alfred Hitchcock's films are suspenseful.  
**대체로  


*46. echo  
*46. reflect, resound, resonate  
*46. imitate, repeat, reiterate  
**The sound of Mozart's music echoed off the walls of the concert hall.  
**The ballet students echoed the movements of their instructor.  
**울리다, 반향하다  
**흉내 내다, 되풀이 하다  


*47. shoddy  
*47. inferior, poor  
**The car repair shop had a reputation for doing shoddy work.  
**질이 떨어지는  


*48. gear  
*48. adjust, adapt, change  
*48. equipment, tool  
**The teacher geared her lessons to the individual abilities of each class.  
**climbing gear  
**맞게 조장하다  
**장비  


*49. absorb  
*49. take in, imbibe, soak up  
**Alcohol that is sotred in barrels absorbs the wood's scent, giving it a unique flavor.  
**흡수하다  


*50. whereby  
*50. through which, by which  
**Plants engage in a process called photosynthesis whereby they produce sugars and starches.  
**~하는  


*51. assemble  
*51. gather together, bring together, collect  
**The family was assembled in the big, white dining room.  
**모으다  



*52. liberate  
*52. free, relese, loosen  
**Rebel forces liberated many political prisoners when they took over the city.  
**해방하다  


*53. rational  
*53. logical, sensible, reasonable  
**Big purchases, such as a car or home, should be based on rational thinking, not on emotions.  
**합리적인  


*54. resistance  
*54. opposition, objection, refusal to accept  
**In the 1960s, American people protested in the streets to show their resistance to the Vietnam War.  
**반대, 저항  


*54-1. resist  
*54-1. refrain from, abstain from  
**참다  


*55. indefinite period  
*55. a period whose end has not been determined  
**Due to safety issues, the bridge will be closed for an indefinite period.  
**무기한  


*56. ardent  
*56. entusiastic, passinate, fervent  
**Thousands of ardent fans gathered at the stadium to watch the Olympics.  
**열렬한  


*57. extinct  
*57. having died out, defunct  
**Plants and animals are becoming extinct at the fastest rate ever known in human history.  
**멸종된  


*58. be accompanied by  
*58. occur togheter with  
**The patient's sore throat was accompanied by a fever.  
**~을 동반하다  


*59. overestimated  
*59. bigger than actual value  
**Recent studies have shown that the benefits of dieting are overestimated.  
**과대평가된  
















# day 7  
*1. considerable  
*1. substantial, a large amout of, large  
*1. meaningful, significant  
**Plankton is gaining considerable interest among marine scientists.  
**For Pavlov, winning the Nobel Prize was a considerable achievement.  
**상당한  
**중요한  


*2. dominate  
*2. control, govern, rule  
*2. be widespread in  
**The Spartans were a strong military force that dominated Ancient Greece.  
**Pro-gun attitudes dominate many states in the US.  
**지배하다  
**압도적으로 우세하다  


*2-1. dominance  
*2-1. ascendancy, supremacy  
**우위, 우세  


*3. ratio  
*3. proportion, rate, percentage  
**The ratio of women in the workforce is higher than ever.  
**비율  


*4. duplicate  
*4. copy, reproduce, imitate  
*4. repeat  
**It is considered stealing to illegally duplicate a copyrighted work without permission.  
**Thebaseball team won the championship last year, and they duplicated that success this year.  
**복제하다  
**되풀이하다  


*5. barely  
*5. hardly, scarcely, almost not  
*5. just, only just  
**There has been barely any evidence that taking zinc helps prevent colds.  
**We arrived barely in time to see the begining of the performance.  


*6. strew  
*6. scatter, spinkle, disperse  
**The tsunami strewed debris over several miles of shoreline.  
**흘뿌리다  


*7. legitimately  
*7. properly, lawfully, legally  
**The president was elected legitimately through a nationwide vote.  
**합법적으로, 정당하게  


*7-1. legitimate  
*7-1. reasonable, logical  
**합리적인, 합법적인  


*8. encapsulate  
*8. summarize, sum up, condense  
**The paper includes a concluding paragraph that encapsulates the main points.  
**요약하다  

*9. relatively  
*9. comparatively, by comparison  
**Roses have a relatively stronger fragrance than sunflowers.  
**비교적으로  


*10. hazard  
*10. risk, danger, peril, jeopardy  
**Reduced regulation created hazards to public health and safety.  
**위험  


*11. paramount  
*11. supreme, prime, chief  
**The company's paramount concern was its declining sales.  
**최고의, 중요한  


*12. unwieldy  
*12. difficult to manage, awkward  
*12. awkward  
**Heavy vehicles such as trucks and tractors can be unwidely to operate.  
**다루기 힘든  
**(어색한 말고)다루기힘든(도 됨)  


*13. subsequent  
*13. succceding, following, later, following in time   
**The first earthquake was strong, but luckily the subsequent ones were weak.  
**그 다음의  


*14. striking  
*14. noticeable, remarkable, attention-getting  
**There was a striking difference in the building's appearance after the renovation.  
**현저한  


*15. extended  
*15. long-lasting, prolnged  
**Images of Venus indidate that the planet may have had extended periods of geological activity.  
**장기간에 걸친  


*16. ephemeral  
*16. short-lived, living for a short time, temporary  
**A mayfly is an ephemeral insect that has a lifespan of less than 48 hours.  
**단명하는, 덧없는  


*17. rigid  
*17. strict, exact, severe, rigorous  
*17. stiff, hard, firm  
**The rules at the military boot camp are so rigid that many drop out on the first day.  
**When Ted heard the news, his whole body went rigid with shock.  
**엄격한  
**굳은, 경직된  


*18. chief  
*18. major, main, primary, principal  
*18. leader, head  
**Victorian writer Alfred Lord Tnennyson was a chief influence on the poet T.S. Eliot.  
**주요한  
**조직의 장  


*19. severity  
*19. seriousness  
**The effects of black widow spider bites vary widely in severity, from mild skin irritation to death.  
**심함  


*20. typical of  
*20. characteristic of, representative of  
**Family-owned stores were typical of nineteenth-century American commercial establishments.  
**~을 대표하는  


*21. enable  
*21. allow, permit, facilitate  
**Smartphones enable people to share information with others easily.  
**가능하게 하다  


*22. empirical  
*22. based on observation, experimental  
**The scientists studied the rats' movements in order to gain empirical evidence about their behavior.  
**실험상의, 실험에 의한  


*23. controversy  
*23. dispute, debate, disagreement, contention  
**How to distribute education funding is a controversy in many school districts.  
**논쟁  


*24. accomplish  
*24. achieve, execute, work out, put through  
**To accomplish its plan for a new building, the community center must raise a lot of money.  
**성취하다  


*25. set  
*25. fixed, settled  
*25. situate, place, put  
**Doctors recommend sticking to a set sleeping schedule in order to get good rest.  
**The movers will set the furniture inside the house.  
**고정된  
**놓다  


*26. lag  
*26. delay
*26. linger, dawdle    
**There is a slight lag between the transmission and reception of an electronic signal.  
**지연  
**꾸물거리다  


*27. exude  
*27. give off, release, emit  
**Human skin exudes sweat as a colling mechanism.  
**발산하다  


*28. interplay  
*28. interaction, reciprocity  
**The interplay of supply and demand helps determine the price of goods.  
**상호작용  


*29. precede  
*29. come before, entecede, forerun  
**A recovery in airline stocks typically precedes a rebound in the economy.  
**~에 앞서다  


*30. manipulation  
*30. deliberate alteration  
**The manipulation of people's personal information without consent is a criminal offense.  
**조작  


*31. dry  
*31. arid, rainless, parched  
**Mars has a very dry environment, although some frozen water lies below the surface.  
**건조한  


*32. assist with  
*32. help with, aid, support  
**Financial advisors assist with managing and increasing their client' personal wealth.  
**~을 돕다  


*33. acute  
*33. severe, intense, extreme  
*33. keen, sharp  
**The Environmental Protection Agency has documented many cases of acute injury and death from fires.  
**극심한  
**예리한  


*34. article  
*34. object, item, thing  
**Every single article in the museum is more than a thousand years old.  
**물품  


*35. scrutiny  
*35. close observation, examination, inspection  
**After much scrutiny, expects determined that the painting was authentic.  
**정밀 검사  


*36. recompense  
*36. repayment, compensation  
**Bobby offered to mow his neighbor's lawn as recompense for accidentally breaking her window with his baseball.  
**보상  


*37. relfect  
*37. show, indicate, display, demonstrate  
*37. meditate, think, consider, ponder  
**Chants of "Encore!" reflected the crowd's enjoyment of the performance.  
**Casey needed some time to reflect before making her decision.  
**나타내다  
**숙고하다  


*38. immeasurably  
*38. greatly, extremely  
**Quality of life has improved immeasurably because of modern technology.  
**대단히  


*39. rudiments  
*39. basics, elements, fundamentals  
**George mastered the rudiments of Russian grammar in one year.  
**기초, 기본  


*40. mortality  
*40. death  
**In the 19th century, world mortality rates declined due to advances in medicine.  
**사망  


*40-1. mortal  
*40-1. lethal, fatal  
**치명적  


*41. awkward  
*41. clumsy, unskillful  
**A child's awkward first steps are an important milestone in his or her physical development.  
**서투른  


*42. constrain  
*42. oblige, bind, force, pressure  
*42. inhibit, restrain, restrict  
**The threat of social exclusion constrins people to behave in culturally acceptable ways.  
**The country's economic growth was constrained by a high level of inflation.  
**강요하다  
**억제하다  


*43. turmoil  
*43. unrest, agitation, stir  
**When the electricity went out across the city, it created turmoil among the residents.  
**소란, 동요  


*44. property  
*44. characteristic, character, quality  
*44. estate, possession, havings  
**Professor Kim discussed the properties of gas molecules in detail during the lecture.  
**Albert lost all of his property in the fire.  
**특성  
**예산  


*45. fuel  
*45. give energy to, encourage  
**Coal fueled the engines used in the steamships of the 19th century.  
**연료를 공급하다, 자극하다  


*46. majestic  
*46. magnificent, grand, august  
**The bald eagle is so majestic that the US made the animal its national bird.  
**위엄있는, 웅대한  


*47. preeminent  
*47. outstanding, distinguished, foremost  
**Marcel Duchamp was one of the preeminent artists of the 20th century.  
**뛰어난  


*48. crude  
*48. rough, primitive, raw, unrefined  
**Dietary experts believe that crude sea salt contains more nutrients than its refined counterparts.  
**가공하지 않은  


*49. variety  
*49. diversity, multiplicity  
*49. type, species, sort, kind  
**The variety of trees is a result of millions of years of evolution.  
**The catfish is a popular variety of freshwater fish.  
**다양성  
**종류  


*50. typically  
*50. usually, normally, ordinarily  
**Pain relief tablets typically take ten to thirty minutes to start working.  
**보통  


*51. supplementary  
*51. additional, extra   
**These days, many people work a second job for supplementary income.  
**추가의  


*52. reduce  
*52. decrease, diminish, cut  
**The poor tobacco crops of 1755 greatly reduced the amout of tobacco exports.  
**감소시키다  


*53. subject  
*53. participant  
*53. expose  
**The subjects in the medical experiment have been screened for health issues.  
**After a few weeks, young owls leave the nest and subject themselves to danger.  
**피실험자  
**겪게 하다  


*54. flee  
*54. run away from, escape, abscond  
**Although many criminals attempted to flee Alcatraz Prison, it was nearly escape-proof.  
**도망치다, 벗어나다  







**For Pavlov, wining the Nobel Prize 
# day 6  
*1. disperse  
*1. scatter, dissipate, spread, sisseminate  
**The smoke from the fire was rapidly dispersed by the strong winds.  
**흩어지게 하다, 퍼뜨리다  


*2. adjacent  
*2. nearby, neighboring, adjoining  
**In addition to the World Trade Center, adjacent buildings were damaged on 9/11.  
**인접한  


*3. sequence  
*3. progression, series, string, succession  
*3. order  
**A sequence of political events in the West caused war to break.  
**The sequence of the dance steps should be followed exactly.  
**연속  
**순서  


*4. detect  
*4. discover, find, identify, recognize, sense  
**The scientists detected a trace of toxic chemicals in the city's water supply.  
**발견하다, 인지하다  

*4-1. defect  
*4-1. shortcoming, blemish  
**결점  


*5. flexible  
*5. pliable, bendable, adaptable, adjustable  
**The tongue is a flexible organ that helps produce a wide variety of sounds.  
**유연한, 적응성 있는  


*6. surpass  
*6. exceed, outrun, be higher than, excel  
**The student's art project surpassed the teacher's expectation.  
**능가하다  


*7. invariable  
*7. constant, consistent, unchanging  
**There has been an invariable struggle for justice in Cuba since the 1950s.  
**변함없는  


*8. dramatic  
*8. striking, signmificant, impressive  
**Alaska has dramatic changes in theperature throughout the year.  
**극적인, 인상적인  


*9. master  
*9. learn thoroughly, learn, acquire  
*9. control, manage  
**Amanda has mastered several languages, including French and German.  
**Chris mastered his fear of water and eventually became a good swimmer.  
**습득하다  
**제어하다  


*10. assimilate  
*10. absorb, take in, digest  
*10. accommodate, adjust  
**The research indicates that the human mind can assimilate languages most rapidly before the age of seven.  
**흡수하다, 이해하다  
**동화시키다, 적응시키다  


*11. overwhelming  
*11. powerful, enormous, compelling, tremendous  
**Due to the overwhelming evidence, the jury convicted the man of the crime.  
**압도적인, 굉장한  


*12. curious  
*12. inquisitive, questioning, inquiring  
*12. strange, mysterious, extraordinary  
**A child who is curious about the world will often do well in school.  
**The Bermuda Triangle is believed to be the site of many curious events.  
**호기심이 강한  
**이상한, 별난  


*13. alteration  
*13. change, modification  
**The tailor made an alteration to Kelly's wedding dress allowing it to drape more loosely about her shoulders.  
**변화, 수정  


*13-1. altercation  
*13-1. argument, contention  
**언쟁  


*14. consequence  
*14. result, effect, ramification, outcome  
*14. importance, significance  
**The economic depression in the US was unique in its consequences.  
**Electing a president is a decision of great consequence for a country.  
**결과  
**중요성  


*15. deceive  
*15. mislead, delude, cheat  
**The company was accused of engaging in a deliberate effort to deceive its shareholders.  
**속이다  


*16. ample  
*16. sizable, large, spacious, vast  
*16. plentiful, abundant, more than enough  
**The backyard of the house has ample room for a swimming pool and a large garden.  
**Richard stocks his refrigerator with an ample supply of food and beverages for unexpected guests.  
**넓은, 광대한  
**풍부한  


*17. resilient  
*17. quick to recover, easy to recover  
**After injury, young people are usually more resilient than old people.  
**금방 회복하는  


*18. detach  
*18. separate, disconnect, disengage  
*18. unconcern, indifference  
**The inner lining of the coat can be detached to make the coat less bulky.  
**분리하다  
**무관심  


*19. account  
*19. description, report, narrative  
**John Reed wrote a famous account of the Russian Revolution  
**기술, 보고  


*20. equilibrium  
*20. balance, symmetry  
**A market is considered to be stable when supply and demand are in equilibrium.  
**균형  


*21. surmise  
*21. infer, guess, speculate, suspect  
**Without any hard evidence to rely upon, researchers can only surmise how the death of King Tutankhamen occurred.  
**추축하다  


*22. unsuitable  
*22. inappropriate, unfit, improper  
**Films that are rated R are unsuitable for children under the age of 17.  
**적합하지 않은  


*23. imaginative  
*23. creative, inventive, original  
**Imaginative people often find unconventional solutions to difficult problems.  
**창의적인  


*24. imposing  
*24. impressive, striking  
**The Empire State Building is an imposing structure situated in the heart of New York City.  
**인상적인  


*25. vitality  
*25. energy, liveliness, vigor  
**A person's vitality is affected by what he or she eats and how much sleep he or she gets.  
**활력  


*26. vehicle  
*26. means, medium, instrument  
**In democracies, voting is the primary vehicle for social change.  
**수단, 매체  


*27. hitherto  
*27. previously, so far, until now  
**The rose bushes that had hitherto looked dead suddenly produced flowers.  


*28. plague  
*28. cause a problem for, bother, annoy  
*28. epidemic, infection  
**Frequent delays plagued the construction project, but finally it was completed.  
**괴롭히다  
**전염병  


*29. domain  
*29. area, field  
**In the domain of art, nobody is more famous than Leonardo da Vinci.  
**영역  


*30. indifferent  
*30. uninterested, unconcerned, careless  
**Many of Thomas Edison's inventions did not succeed because the public was indifferent.  
**무관심한  


*31. champion  
*31. support, promote, advocate, endorse  
**John Dewey championed the ida that students should actively participate in the learning process.  
**옹호하다  


*32. deteriorate  
*32. get worse, degenerate  
**My grandmother's health deteriorated lasy year, but she's much better now.  
**악화되다  


*33. assault  
*33. attack, aggress, assail  
**John was arrested last night because he assaulted his neighbor during a noise dispute.  
**폭행하다, 공격하다  


*34. appropriate  
*34. suitable, proper, applicable  
**Brittany's clothes were not appropriate for a job interview.  
**적절한  


*35. adept  
*35. skilful, proficeint, deft, adroit  
**The restaurant's new chef is adept at preparing both Italian and French cuisine.  
**능숙한  


*35-1. adapt  
*35-1. adjust, accommodate  
**적응하다  


*36. indeed  
*36. in truth, in fact  
**Indeed, technological innovations have dramatically reduced the demand for manual labor.  
**사실은  

*37. pursuit  
*37. interest, pastime, hobby  
*37. search, quest  
**Pursits such as playing cards or reading books can prevent demetia in the elderly.  
**취미, 오락  
**추구  


*38. incite  
*38. stimulate, provoke, inflame, spur  
**The love poem incited Todd's emotions and he asked his girlfriend to marry him.  
**자극하다  


*39. guarantee  
*39. ensure, secure, warrant  
**The linking of medical institutions will guarantee better health care systems.  
**보장하다  


*40. prosperity  
*40. economic well-being, wealth, fortune  
**In the 1800s, economic freedom brought the US great prosperity.  
**번영  


*41. primarily  
*41. mostly, mainly, chiefly  
*41. originally, at first, initially  
**Members of the country club were primarily wealthy old men.  
**The Republican Party was primarily created to stop the spread of slavery.  
**주로  
**원래, 처음에  


*42. erupt  
*42. explode, burst, blow up  
**In 1980, Mount St. Helens erupted and destroyed the surrounding forest.  
**폭발하다  


*43. trace  
*43. evidence, vestige, imprint, mark  
*43. track down, trail  
**The results of the blood test showed traces of an illegal drug in the patient's blood.  
**자취, 흔적  
**추적하다  


*44. prestigious  
*44. highly regarded, esteemed, respected  
**Harvard University is one of the most prestigious colleges in North America.  
**명성이 있는  


*45. shape  
*45. affect, form, influence  
**Experiences that occur during childhood can shape a person's personality.  
**형성하다  


*46. inflict  
*46. cause, administer, exact  
**Harsh weather can inflict serious damage on fruit crops.  
**주다, 가하다  


*47. portion  
*47. part, segment, fragment  
**Some portions of the massive sculpture are made of metal, while others are made of stone.  
**부분  


*48. coincidence  
*48. chance happening  
**According to the police, the suspect's presence during the robbery was a coincidence.  
**우연의 일치  


*49. propel  
*49. push, force, drive, impel  
**The store's security guard propelled the unruly customer out the door.  
**몰아내다  


*50. thoroughly  
*50. completely, entirely  
**The professor covered the collapse of the Mayan civilization thoroughly in class.  
**철저히, 완전히  


*51. contemplate  
*51. consider, ponder  
**John accepted a teaching position in Vancouver while he contemplated the future.  
**곰곰이 생각하다  


*52. unethical  
*52. improper, immoral  
**The students protested against the unethical treatment of animal by researchers.  
**비윤리적인  


*53. replica  
*53. reproduce, copy, duplicate  
**Janine tried to replicate the clothing style she saw in a fashion magazine.  
**모사하다, 복제하다  


*54. hasty  
*54. hurried, rushed  
**Overwhelmed by the Russian winter, Napoleon's army performed a hasty retreat out of the country.  
**황급한, 서두르는  


*55. representative  
*55. indicative, typical, exemplary  
*55. delegate  
**The fact that many celebrities attended the award show was representative of its importance.  
**나타내는, 전형적인  
**대표  


*56. range  
*56. scope, spectrum, extent  
**With the invetion of the Internet, the range of media sources increased dramatically.  
**범위  


# day 5  
*1. compelling  
*1. convincing, persuasive, cogent  
**The speaker made some compelling arguments against immigration reform.  
**설득력있는  


*2. ultimately  
*2. eventually, finally, in the end, lsatly  
**After submitting his book to numerous publishers, the author ultimately succeeded in getting it published.  
**마침내, 결국  


*3. bulk  
*3. mass, large quantity, great quantity  
*3. majority, main part  
*3. huge, enormous  
**Buying its supplies in bulk, the department store chain was able to sell for less than its competitors.  
**Although the bulk of the movies was boring, parts of it were funny.  
**큰규모, 대량  
**대부분  
**부피가 큰  


*4. imcompatible  
*4. in conflict, discrepant, contradictory  
**Budget proposals submitted by different political parties are usually incompatible.  
**양립할 수 없는  


*5. substantially  
*5. significantly, considerably  
*5. largely, mainly  
**In the mid-1800s, the enrollment of females in American schools increased substantially.  
**Analysts expect the political situation to remain substantially the same over the next few years.  
**상당히  
**대체로  


*6. seek  
*6. look for, search for, pursue  
*6. attempt, try, essay  
**The invetigator sought the truth regardless of the consequences.  
**Governments must seek to balance the interests of diverse social groups  
**찾다, 조사하다  
**시도하다, 노력하다  


*7. unanticipated  
*7. not expected, unforeseen  
**It is important to save money for unanticipated expenses.  
**예상하지 못한  


*8. merge  
*8. combine, blend, fuse  
**The team members decided to merge their ideas and make the presentation together.  
**합치다, 융합하다  


*8-1. emerge  
*8-1. appear, loom  
**나타나다  


*9. encounter  
*9. meet, experience, confront, face  
**Bill encountered many obtacles that delayed the publication of his book.  
**마주치다, 부닥치다  


*10. residue  
*10. remains, remnant, remainder  
**Chalky residue on the sole of Vincent's shoe proved that he had recently visited the murder scene.  
**잔여물  


*11. circumstance  
*11. condition, situation  
**There are no circumstances under which rare books are allowed out of the library.  
**상황  


*12. astonishing  
*12. incredible, amazing, startling, astounding  
**Estonia's geography is astonishing because of its unusual and diverse mix of landscapes.  
**놀라운, 눈부신  


*13. intermittently  
*13. occasionally, periodically, from time to time  
**In eastern North America, it rains intermittently throughtout the year.  
**간헐적으로  


*14. application  
*14. use, utilization, employment  
**A microcomputer has a wide range of applications for mobile businesses.  
**응용, 이용  


*15. predominant  
*15. principal, main, primary, leading  
**Blue is the predominant color in Van Gogh's Starry Night.  
**주된, 주요한  


*16. remote  
*16. distant, secluded, removed  
*16. faint, slim  
**While Watson was smoking, George would sit in a remote corner  
**멀리 떨어진  
**희박한  

*17. inordinate  
*17. excessive, exorbitant, undue  
**The use of inordinate amounts of pesticide and synthetic fertilizer on crops is against the law.  
**과도한   


*18. lauch  
*18. start, begin, initiate, commence  
**The government is planning to launch a major forestry campaign.  
**시작하다  


*19. trend  
*19. tendency, inclination, direction  
**The current trend is towards more part-time employment.  
**경향, 추세  


*20. embodiment  
*20. concrete example, epitome  
**The dimigod Herculues from Greek mythology is the embodiment of masculinity.  
**전형, 구체화된 것  


*21. colonize  
*21. inhabit, populate  
*21. conquer  
**Fire ants colonize grasslands whereas carpenter ants tend to live in wooded areas.  
**The Spanish were the first Europeans to colonize America.  
**서식하다  
**식민지화하다  


*22. affect  
*22. influence, impact, act on  
*22. pretend, assume  
**The scientists are currently studying how climate affects marine animal populations.  
**영향을 미치다  
**~인 척하다  


*23. speculation  
*23. supposition, conjecture, surmise  
**There was much speculation in the office as to who the new employee would be.  
**추측  


*24. compound  
*24. add to, intesify, worsen  
*24. mixture, blend  
**The doctor said that scratching an insert bite would only compound the itchiness.  
**더하다, 악화시키다
**혼합물    


*25. fascinating  
*25. extremly attractive, captivating, enthralling  
**Jackson Pollock's paintings are characterized by fascinating combinations of colors and shapes.  
**매혹적인  


*26. constellation  
*26. collection, combination, group  
**Jerusalem is a city that is known for its constellation of cultures.  
**모임, 무리  


*27. unconsolidated  
*27. loose, incoherent  
**Erosion rates are highest in places with unconsolidated soil.  
**굳지 않은  


*28. outstanding  
*28. excellent, remarkable, prominent  
*28. unpaid  
**The writer's speech was so outstanding that years later people still quote from it.
**Susan has quite a few outstanding debts this month.  
**뛰어난  
**미지불의, 처리되지 않은  


*29. outcome  
*29. result, consequence, conclusion  
**The researchers were surprised by the outcome of the psychology experiment.  
**결과  


*30. document  
*30. record, report, paper  
*30. verify, support  
**The archaeologists found ancient documents in a cave in the desert.  
**문서, 기록  
**입증하다  


*31. intrinsically  
*31. fundamentally, essentially  
**Unlike money, gold and diamonds are considered to be intrinsically valuable.  
**본질적으로  


*32. disputatious  
*32. contetious, argumetative, quarrelsome  
**The disagreement got heated quickly because both people involved were highly disputatious.  
**논쟁을 좋아하는  


*33. diverse  
*33. varied, various, manifold, dissimilar  
**Russell's genius lies in getting people of diverse backgrounds to work together.  
**다양한, 다른  


*34. eerie  
*34. odd, strange  
**The book 1984 was an eerie prediction of the future.  
**기묘한  


*35. tenuous  
*35. weak, insubstantial  
**Germany provided a tenuous jstification for its invacion of Poland in 1939.  
**빈약한  


*36. eradicate  
*36. remove, root up, extirpate, eliminate  
**The US spend $50 billion per year trying to eradicate drug use.  
**근절하다  


*37. prone to  
*37. susceptible to, likely to get  
**Young children are prone to illness because their immune systems are not well developed.  
**~하기 쉬운  


*38. lodge  
*38. embed, implant  
**The meteor flew in from outer space and lodged in the rock.  
**박히다  


*39. gather mementum  
*39. make progress, gain impetus  
**Business at the new book shop was slow at first, but soon it started to gather mementum.  
**탄력이 붙다  


*40. viable  
*40. able to survive  
**A fetus is considered viable after it has endured 20 weeks inside the womb.  
**생존 가능한  


*41. impediment  
*41. obstacle, obstruction, barrier  
**If Ben puts his mind to something, no impediment can stop him from reaching his goals.  
**장애물  


*42. arid  
*42. dry, barren, sterile, waterless  
**To perform a construction project in an arid desert, a great amount of water is needed.  
**메마른  


*42-1. acrid  
*42-1. pungent  
**매운, 콕 쏘는 듯한  


*43. credible  
*43. believable, reliable, plausible  
**Internet websites are not always credible sources of information.  
**믿을 수 있는  


*44. vacate  
*44. abandon, evacuate, void  
**The typhoon forced residents to vacate the area near the coast.  
**떠나다, 비우다  


*45. cushion  
*45. protect, buffer  
**Exercise shoes have a layer of foam that cushions the foot from the impact of running.  
**보호하다, 충격을 완화하다  


*46. peculiar  
*46. unique, distinc, particular  
*46. strange, unusual, odd  
**The idiomatic expression is peculiar to the British dialect of the English language.  
**The zoologists were puzzled by the animal's peculiar behavior.  


*47. attributable to  
*47. caused by, ascribable to  
**The World Health Organization stated that 12 percent of global deaths is attributable to smoking.  
**~에 기인하는  


*48. enact  
*48. make into law, establish, pass, adopt  
*48. stage, perform  
**The civil rights movement pressured Congress to enact a new law in 1964.  
**제정하다  
**상연하다  


*49. stratified  
*49. layered  
**Stratified rock helps geologists determine the age of geological deposits.  
**층으로 이루어진  


*50. with regard to  
*50. in terms of, with respect to, concerning  
**Stricter regulations with regard to genetically modified foods are being considered.  
**~에 관하여  


*51. turbulent  
*51. violent, agitated, tumultuous  
**The increase in civil wars around the world is a sign of our turbulent times.  
**격동하는  


*52. appraisal  
*52. evaluation, assessment, estimation  
**Employees are given formal appraisals every six months.  
**평가  


*53. erroneous  
*53. wrong, incorrect, mistaken, false  
**All of team agreed that it was an erroneous conclusion.  
**잘못된  


*54. proponent  
*54. supporter, advocate, adherent, parisan  
**Huxley's grandfather was a famous biologist and proponent of Darwin's theories.  
**지지자   


*55. absolute  
*55. unqualified, complete, utter  
**Mr. Jones developed a worldwide reputation as an absolute expert in his field of study.  
**an unqualified success(절대적인 성공)  
**절대적인, 완전한  

*56. gratify  
*56. satisfy, please  
**With its new and unique sound, Beethoven's symphoney gratified audiences in Vienna.  
**만족시키다, 기쁘게 하다  




# day 4    
*1. readily  
**easily, effortlessly, quickly - 손쉽게, 즉시  
***In the experiment,rats readily learned to associate certain behaviors with rewards.  
**willingly, without reluctance - 기꺼이  
***When Nathan was offered a larger office, he readily accepted it.  


*2. advocate  
**promote, speak in favor of, argue in support of - 지지하다  
***The lobbyist is advocating the new bill in his letter to the senator.  
**proponent, supporter, upholder - 지지자  
***Norman Sisisky was a strong advocate for defense spending during nine terms in Congress.  


*3. utterly  
**completely, totally - 완전히  
***John enjoyed the movie, but he was utterly surprised by the movie's ending.  


*4. abound  
**overflow, teem, be plentiful, be numerous - 아주 많다, 풍부하다  
***Wild dolphins abound in Canada's Bay of Fundy.  


*5. formidable  
**impressive - 어마어마한, 경외감을 일으키는  
***The creation of the United Nations was a formidable achievement in international cooperation.  
**difficult to handle - 만만치 않은, 감당하기 어려운  
***For working parents, raising children is formidable.  


*6. enormous  
**huge, very large, great, immense, vast, tremendous - 거대한  
***China's enormous population poses a major challenge for the country's food production system.  


*7. disband  
**dismiss, disperse, break up - 해산시키다  
***The government has promised to disband the rebel group before the end of the year.  


*8. alleged  
**supposed, assumed - 추정의  
***Investigators interviewd the alleged victim of the crime several times.  


*9. renowned  
**famous, celebrated, prominent, eminent - 유명한  
***The renowned scientist was disgraced when it was discovered that he had lied about his work.  


*10. versatile  
**adaptable, flexible - 융통성 있는, 다방면의  
***Because of the ever-changing economy, the need for versatile workers is greater than ever before.  


*11. prohibitive  
**unaffordable, extreme, exorbitant - 값이 엄청나게 비싼  
***For most New Yorkers, the cost of an apartment in Manhattan is prohibitive.  


*12. option  
**choice, selection - 선택(권)  
***John had the option of learning German or French.  


*13. inherent  
**innate, built-in, essential, congenital - 타고난, 본래의  
***The need to be loved and recognized is an inherent part of human beings.  


*14.justify  
**rightfully, justifiably, lawfully - 공정하게, 정당하게  
***The judge justly sentenced the ciminal to life in prison.  


*15. provoke  
**incite, bring about, give rise to - 불러일으키다  
***At some point during their argument, Betty's rude attitude proboked Sam's anger.  


*16. impermeable  
**impenetrable, impervious - 침투되지 않는, 통과사키지 않는  
***Shale is a compacted sedimentary rock that is more impermeable to water thatn sandstone.  


*17. momentous  
**significant, major, meaningful, substantial - 중대한  
***The signing of the Declaration of lndependence was a mementous occasion in American history.  


*18. forestall  
**prevent, hinder, avert - 미연에 방지하다  
***The union leader forestalled a riot by telling the strikers to disperse.  


*19. therefore  
*19. consequently, as a result, thus, hence  
*그 결과  
**Giles was constantly falling asleep in history class and therefore scored very poorly on the final exam.  


*20. persuade  
*20. convince, induce  
*설득하다  
**Dan persuaded Nancy to go to Italy with him for vacation.


*21. proximity  
*21. closeness, nearness  
*가까움  
**Proximity to a good school is a vital consideration for parents that plan on relocating to a new city.  


*22. dependable  
*22. reliable, trustworthy  
*신뢰할 수 있는
**A successful president typically has a dependable staff that offers advice and guidance.  


*23. ensuring  
*23. subsequent, following, succeeding  
*뒤이은, 다음의  
**The earthquake and the ensuing aftershocks destroyed much of San Francisco in 1906.  


*24. apreciably  
*24. noticeably, significantly, considerably  
**The temperature dropped appreciably this morning.  
**상당히  


*25. obligate  
*25. force, coerce, compel, constrain  
**Most states obligate companies and other organizations to apply the minimum wage law.  
**의무를 지우다, 강요하다  


*26. wholesale  
*26. extensive, mass  
*26. completely  
**The oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico caused the wholesale destruction of the marine ecosystem.  
**대규모의  
**The editor's suggestions regarding the document were accepted wholesale  
**모조리, 통틀어서


*27. dweller  
*27. inhabitant, resident, occupant  
**City dwellers tend to have a higher cost of living than those residing in the country.  
**거주자  


*28. tacit  
*28. implicit, implied, unspoken  
**The two countries made a tacit agreement to end the war, but they did not actually sign a peace treaty.  
**무언의, 암묵적인  


*29. resolve  
*29. settle, find a solution for, solve  
**In some cases, mediators can help parties resolve legal disputes without going to court.  
**해결하다  


*30. merit  
*30. value, worth, virtue  
**The great merit of the poems is that they make us aware of previously unperceived possibilities.  
**가치  


*31. notion  
*31. concept, general idea, opinion, view  
**The notion that one is born as a blank slate has long been abandoned by most psychologists.  
**개념, 견해  


*32. synthesize  
*32. integrate, combine, coalesce  
**A financial analyst must be able to synthesize data from a variety of sources.  
**통합하다  


*33. spectrum  
*33. range, scope, extent  
**A Renaissance man possesses a broad spectrum of interests that includes the academic and the artistic.  
**범위  


*34. stream  
*34. flow, current  
**It ws difficult for the plumber to tell where the stream of liquid was coming from.  
**흐름  


*35. rupture  
*35. burst, break apart, split, tear  
*35. breach, discord  
**Patty's eardrum ruptured due to the sound of the explosion.  
**파열되다, 찟어지다  
**The rupture in Amy and Diana's friendship was resolved after Amy apologized.  
**불화  


*36. presuppose  
*36. assume, suppose, presume  
**High-level chemistry courses presuppose that students have a basic knowledge of chemical structures.  
**가정하다  


*37. well-to-do  
*37. wealthy, affluent, rich  
**In the early days of air travel, flight tickets were so expensive that only well-to-do people could afford them.  
**부유한  


*38. appeal  
*38. plead, request, ask, beg  
**The students appealed to the professor for more time to study for the exam.  
**간청하다  


*39. accurately  
*39. correctly, precisely, exactly  
**Many doctors use electronic thermometers to accurately determine their patients' temperatures.  
**정확하게  


*40. fastidious  
*40. demanding, choosy  
**The director would film the same scene hundreads of times becuase he was so fastidious.  
**까다로운  


*41. contraction  
*41. reduction, diminution  
**For most companies, a contraction in sales can mean a huge loss in revenues.  
**감소, 축소  


*42. stimulus  
*42. impetus, motivation, incentive, incitement  
**Jack's dream of owning a house is a stimulus for him to work hard.  
**자극  


*43. track  
*43. follow, chase, monitor  
**A bearded man tracked Jane to her dormitory.  
**뒤쫓다, 추적하다  


*44. tame  
*44. domesticate, train  
**According to a recent study, dogs were first tamed in prehistoric Europe.  
**길들이다  


*45. install  
*45. put in place, set up, position  
**Many cities have installed radar systems at intersections to discourage reckless driving.  
**설치하다  


*46. chronicle  
*46. record, history  
**Anne Frank's diary was a chronicle of her life during the Holocaust.  
**기록, 연대기  


*47. novel  
*47. new, innovative, unusual  
**Graphic calculators were highly novel in the 1960s.  
**새로운, 신기한  


*48. isolated  
*48. remote, solitary, secluded  
**Henry David Thoreau spent years living in an isolated cabin.  
**외딴  


*49. exposed  
*49. visible, revealed, uncovered  
**In the 19th century, it was considered shocking to see a woman with exposed ankles in public.  
**드러난, 노출된  


*50. intermingled  
*50. mixed, combined, blended  
**Toss the salad and chill it overnight until the flavors are intermingled.  
**섞인  


*51. succulent  
*51. juicy, pulpy  
**Aloe is a plant that stores water in its succulent leaves.  
**즙이 많은  

 
*52. homogeneous  
*52. unvarying, akin  
**The new apartment building is composed of one hundred homogeneous units.  
**동종의, 균질의  


*53. era  
*53. period, epoch, age  
**The microchip initiated the era of the personal computer.  
**시대  


*54. threat  
*54. intention to harm, menace  
**Rabbits' large ears give them excellent hearing that allows them to detect any threats in their environment.
**위협  


*55. foul  
*55. pollute, contaminate  
**During the Industrial Revolution, the smoke from factories fouled the air of many urban areas.  
**더럽히다  


*56. prey  
*56. victim  
**Elderly people are often the prey of phone scams and identity theft.  
**희생자  


*57. practically  
*57. nearly  
**By the 1970s, browm pelicans were practically extinct in the US.  
**거의  



# day 3  
*1. simultaneous  
**concurrent, happening at the same time, synchronous - 동시의    
***Ther was a flash of lightning and a simultaneous roll of thunder  


*2. vast  
**extensive, immense, great, huge, enormous - 광대한, 거대한  
***The continent the pilgrims had begun settling upon was unimaginably vast.


*3. reluctant  
**unwilling, disinclined, loath - 꺼리는  
***The archaeologists were reluctant to disturb the fragile pottery at the ancient site.  


*4. conjecture  
**speculation, guess, supposition - 추측  
***The existence of intelligent life elsewhere in the universe is dismissed as conjecture by most scientists.  


*5. embed  
**fix, insert, implant, root  
***The story of the American Dream has been embedded deeply in American culture.  


*6. vow  
**pledge, promise, oath - 서약, 맹세  
***After the couple recited their vows, they were declared married.  


*7. counter  
**oppose, act against, refute - 반박하다  
***The two lawyers used different interpretations of the same data to counter each other's conclusions.  


*8. apparent  
**clear, evident, obvious - 분명한  
***It was apparent to all that Henry had not rehearsed his speech.  
**seeming, exterior, superficial - 외관상의  
***The apparent cause of the car accident was faulty brakes, but investigators were considering other possibilities.  


*9. bombard  
**strike, assail, attack - 폭격하다, 공격하다  
***Warplanes bombarded the city until it was demolished.  


*10. reveal  
**make known, show, unveil, nucover, expose - 밝히다, 드러내다  
***Merill revealed that the compnay will concentrate on sales of its digital video cameras.  


*11. sturdy  
**well-built, strong, robust, stalwart - 튼튼한  
***The school purchased sturdy desks and chairs that are expected to last several years.  


*12. traditionally  
**typically - 통상적으로, 관습적으로  
***In the early 20th century, girls and boys were traditionally taught separately.  


*13. correspondingly  
**similarly, likewise - 그에 상응하여  
***Oil prices went down, so the cost of airline tickets has correspondingly decreased.  


*14. trigger  
**cause, generate, initiate, start, stimulate, activate - 일으키다  
***News of the court's decision triggered riots and fires in L.A.  


*15. vigorous  
**strong and healthy, strong, energetic - 강건한, 활기찬  
***Despite the man's advanced age, he remained physically vigorous.  
**forceful - 강력한  
***The police officer was known for his vigorous enforcement of drinking and driving laws.  


*16. spontaneous  
**voluntary, unprompted - 자발적인  
***Sarah's successful jump at the cheerleading contest brought a spontaneous cheer from the crowd.  
**automatic, unplanned, involuntary - 무의식적인, 저절로 움직이는  
***When Cindy heared the good news, a spontaneous smile appeared on her face.  


*17. miniature  
**small, tiny, diminutive - 소형의  
***One museum in San Diego contains the world's largest collection of miniature trains.  


*18. commission  
**order, hire - 의뢰하다  
***In the past, it was common for countries to commission artists to create portraits of the king and queen.  


*19. remarkable  
**extraordinary, incredible, notable, significant - 놀라운, 주목할 만한  
***Charles Dickens had remarkable mental and physical energy.  


*20. effort  
**attempt, endeavor, exertion - 노력  
***The effort to increase wages brought about hundreads of strikes in the 1850s.  


*21. manifestation  
**indication, sign, symptom, evidence - 징후  
***Eating disorders can be a manifestation of low self-esteem in adolescent girls.  


*22. prior  
**previous, former, earlier - 이전의  
***Unlike the prior administration, the current one supports universal health care.  


*23. cast about  
**seek, search, hunt - 찾아다니다  
***Unsure how to increase the company's profits, George cast about for solutions from his colleagues.  


*24. rigorous  
**strict, severe, demanding, precise - 엄격한  
***Athletes should follow a rigorous training schedule to be competitive.  
**harsh - 혹독한  
***The rigorous climate of the Arctic makes it inhospitable to humans.  


*25. compulsory  
**obligatory, forced, required, necessary - 의무적인, 강제적인  
***In Britain, education is compulsory between the ages of 5 and 16.  


*26. subsidiary  
**less important, auxiliary, subordinate - 부수적인  
***The CEO said that the rest of the details for the merger were subsidiary and could be discussed at a later time.  


*27. status  
**standing, prestige, importance - 지위, 위신  
***Donald's father was the town doctor, so he was a man of high status in the community.


*28. emphasize  
**stress, highlight, underline - 강조하다  
***The president emphasized the need for the entire country to be on high alert against terrorism.  


*29. largely  
**generally, mostly, mainly - 대부분  
***Korea's citizens are largely of Korean descent, although there is a sizeable foreign population as well.


*30. experimental  
**trial, tentative - 시험적인  
***Vaccines go through an experimental phase to make sure that they are safe before being released.  


*31. drain  
**withdraw liquid gradually, remove water - 물을 빼내다  
***The sink should be drained after each use.  


*32. denote  
**indicate, signify, represent - 나타내다, 표시하다  
***A raised head and flattened neck denote that a cobra is about to strike.  


*33. repudiate  
**reject, disclaim - 거부하다  
***Martin Luther King Jr. Repudiated violence as a means to solve problems.  


*34. contradictory  
**inconsistent, paradoxical, conflicting - 모순되는  
***The soldiers were puzzled by the general's contradictory behavior.  


*35. propagate  
**multiply, reproduce - 번식하다, 증식시키다  
***Many sigle-cell organisms propagate by dividing into two identical copies.  


*36. ensure  
**guarantee, assure, warrant - 보장하다  
***Stricter security regulations have been put in place at airports to ensure the safety of travelers.  


*37. pore  
**hole - 작은 구멍  
***Plants have pores on their leaves so that they can breathe.  
**stare, gaze - 자세히 보다, 응시하다  
***The copy editor had to pore over the report in order to find the tiny mistake.  


*38. alternate  
**take turns, rotate, interchange - 번갈아 일어나다  
***Good luck and misfortune alternate with each otehr throughout our lives.  


*39. devastating  
**destructive, ruinous - 파괴적인  
***During World War II, Stalingrad suffered a devastating defeat, with some 1.5 million people losing their lives.


*40. mingle with  
**associate with, mix with, consort with - ~와 어울리다  
***Company morale improves when managers mingle with staff at social events.  


*41. continued  
**ongoing, constant, incessant, ceaseless - 계속적인  
***The continued success of the company depends on its ability to adapt to the changing economy.  


*42. attempt  
**try, seek, endeavor - 시도하다  
***In Thomas More's Utopia, the characters attempt to create an ideal world.  


*43. subterfuge  
**trick, deception - 속임수  
***The magician's act seemed real, but it was just a subterfuge.  


*44. convert  
**change, transform - 바꾸다  
***The workers at the factory perform dangerous tasks to convert raw iron ore into finished steel.  


*45. contention  
**debate, argument, disagreement - 논쟁  
***Contentions among evolutionists involve how the human species evolved.  


*46. migrate  
**move around, travel - 이주하다  
***The five tribes agreed to migrate beyond the Mississippi in order to establish a new home.  


*47. succession  
**sequence, series - 연속  
***Melody is the succession of sounds.  


*48. tentativeness  
**hesitation, indecision - 망설임  
***Tentativeness is often shown by young children in unfamiliar situations.  


*49. fragmentary  
**incomplete, fractional, partial - 단편적인  
***The trauma victim had only fragmentary memories of the accident.  


*50. legendary  
**famous - 유명한, 전설적인  
***ㅇLed Zeppelin's guitarist Jimmy Page became legendary for his unique playing style.  
**mythical - 전설상의  
***Dragons are legendary creatures that are featured prominently in the folklore of many cultures.  


*51. setback  
**defeat, reverse - 패배  
***Despite early setbacks, George Washington led the Continental Army to victory against the British.  


*52. fine-tune  
**adjust slightly - 미세하게 조정하다  
***Software companies use feedback from customers to fine-tune programs for better performance.  


*53. enthusiastic  
**eager, ardent, zealous - 열광적인  
***The citizenry was enthusiastic about the decision to cut taxes by 10 percent.  


*54. loose  
**not strict, relaxed, slack - 느슨한  
***The office dress code was loose and allowed employees to wear jeans and T-shirts.  


*55. portrait  
**picture - 초상화  
***Art students study how to draw portraits that capture the subject's personality.  


*56. terminology  
**vocabulary, jargon, language - 전문용어  
***Science articles that are meant for a general audience should avid complex terminology.  




# day 2  
*1. virtually  
**in effect, essentially, almost, nearly, almost totally - 사실상, 거의  
***Jane's decision to resign was virtually an admission of guilt.  


*2. unprecedented  
**unlike anything in the past, unique, novel, new - 전례 없는, 새로운  
***To receive a patent, an invetion's design and purpose must be unprecedented.  


*3. grow accustomed to  
**become used to, become familiar with - ~에 익숙해지다  
***While living in Seoul, Tom grew accustomed to traffic jams.  


*4. intrigue  
**interest, fascinate, attract - 흥미를 끌다  
***The discovery of a new planet that is similar to the Earth intrigued scientists.  


*5. implausible  
**unlikely, unbelievable, improbable - 믿기 어려운  
***As implausible as it seems, a snake and a hamster in a Tokyo zoo have become friends.  


*6. decline  
**weakening, decay - 쇠퇴, 쇠락  
***The decline of the Roman Empire began in the 4th century.  
**decrease, lessen, fall - 줄다, 검소하다  
***The singer's popularity has been declining since the scandal.  
**refuse, reject - 거절하다  
***Daniel declined to go to the movie theater with Lisa despite her repeated invitations.  


*7. contemporary  
**modern, present-day, current - 현대의  
***The Internet is an essential tool for doing business in contemporary society.  
**coexisting, concurrent - 동시대의  
***Van Gogh and Gauguin were contemporary artists and good frends.  


*8. allocate  
**distribute, allot, designate, earmark - 할당하다, 배정하다  
***The plan allocates $24 million to City Opera for a new theater downtown.  


*9. drastically  
**severely, strikingly, extemely - 극심하게  
***The National Weather Service issued a warning when the weather changed drastically.  


*10. heterogeneous  
**varied, assorted, mixed - 잡다한, 혼성의  
***English includes words from a heterogeneous collection of other languages.  


*11. conspicuous  
**noticeable, clearly visible, prominent, obvious - 뚜렷한  
***Sharon's addiction to alcohol became conspicuous as she lost conrol of her drinking habit.  


*12. prolific  
**fertile, fruitful, productive, abundant - 다산의, 풍부한  
***Rabbits are prolific breeders, with females able to produce hundreds of babies.  


*13. fluctuation  
**change, variation, variance - 변동  
***Even minor temperature fluctuations can be dangerous to tropical fish  


*14. encourage  
**promote, prompt, motivate - 촉진하다  
***Many studies show that exercise encourages the growth of new brain cells.  
**cheer up, hearten - 격려하다  
***The patients at the hospital were encouraged by the movie star's visit.  


*15. abrupt  
**sudden, sharp, unexpected - 갑작스러운  
***The airbag was wrongly released when the car made an abrupt stop.  


*16. evaluate  
**judge, assess, gauge, appraise - 평가하다  
***Judges use several criteria to evaluate Olymic gymnasts' performances.  


*17. comprehensive  
**thorough, complete, exhuastive - 종합적인  
***Before entering a foreign market, firms conduct a comprehensive study of the country.  


*18. engrave  
**carve, incise, etch - 새기다  
***Julie can engrave designs in all kinds of materials, such as wood, leather, and metal.  


*19. slight  
**minor, small, trivial, mild - 하찮은, 경미한  
***A proofreader will often make slight changes to the final draft of a novel.  


*20. monotonous  
**unvaried, boring, tedious, dull - 단조로운, 지루한  
***Eric quit his job on the assembly line because his tasks were so monotonous.  


*21. regard  
**consider, think of, see - 생각하다, 간주하다  
***Despite the depth and complexity of comic books, soem people regard them as childish.  
**attention, notice - 관심  
***The professor gave little regard to student concerns about the exam's being too difficult.  


*22. obsession with  
**fixation on, preoccupation with - ~에 대한 집착  
***Some teenagers have an obsession with the Internet and social media.  


*23. optimize  
**make the best use of - 최대한 잘 활용하다  
***The international community should optimize the use of non-renewable fossil fule resources.  


*24. supplant  
**replace, substitute, displace, supersede - 대체하다  
***3D printers are expected to supplant traditional manufacturing methods.  


*25. colossal  
**enormous, monstrous, gigantic - 거대한, 엄청난  
***The government paid a colossal sum for accidnets regardless of the cause.  


*26. diffuse  
**spread, distribute, scatter - 퍼뜨리다  
***The stove diffused its warmth all over the house.  


*27.  mecahnics  
**procedure - 방법  
***In the course, students will learn about the mechanics of good writing.  


*28. susceptible to  
**likely to get, vulnerable to, pron to - ~에 걸리기 쉬운, 영향받기 쉬운  
***Thanks to her healthy immune system, Mrs. Ferguson was not susceptible to the flu.  


*29. emanate  
**emerge, spring, originate - (빛, 향기 등이) 나다  
***When an unpleasant odor emanates from a pipe, it could indicate a gas leak.  


*30. conventionally  
**customarily, traditionally - 관례적으로  
***Americans convertionally have a three-day breaqk from work and school on Thanksgiving.  


*31. expansive  
**large, broad, wide, extensive - 넓은, 광대한  
***The expansive lawns in Central Park are popular among visitors.  


*32. sporadically  
**occasionally, at intervals, infrequently - 이따금씩  
***The Sun  sporadically emits bursts of energy known as solar storms.  


*33. comparative  
**relative - 상대적인  
***Next to economy-class passengers, those seated in the business-class section travel in comparative comfort.  


*34. stamp out  
**eliminate, eradicate, extirpate - 근절하다  
***Medical researchers are working hard to stamp out caner.  


*35. stagnation  
**low growth, downturn - 침체  
***The recent unemployment problem is due to stagnation in the economy.  


*36. innate  
**inborn, natural, native - 선천적인  
***There are some innate differences between men and women.  


*37. obsolete  
**out of date, outdated, unused, out of use - 쓸모없게 된, 쓰이지 않는  
***The page has now become obsolete because of advances in mobile communications.  


*38. specify  
**state, define, stipulate - 명시하다  
***The menu specified that all of the restaurant's dishes were prepared with organic ingredients.  


*39. endure  
**tolerate, survive, suffer, persevere - 견디다  
***The first European clonists in North America endured many hardships.  
**last, continue, persist - 지속하다  
***Charles Darwin's reputation as a visionary has endured through the years.  


*40. conceivable  
**imaginable, thinkable, possible - 생각할 수 있는  
***Volunteers are triying every conceivable method to control the wildfire.  


*41. sufficiently  
**adequately, amply, satisfactorily - 충분히  
***Teachers must sufficiently prepare their students to move up to the next grade level.  


*42. entail  
**involve, cause - 수반하다, 일으키다  
***Building the Panama Canal was dangerous, so it entailed a serious risk for the workers.  
**require, demand - 필요로 하다  
***Farming has always entailed long hours of labor.  


*43. depict  
**picture, portray, represent - 묘사하다  
***The people depicted in the painting are former senators.  


*44. integration  
**union, unification - 통합  
***Race relations in America changed with the integration of white and black schools.  


*45. stockpile  
**store up, save, reserve - 비축하다  
***Squirrels stockpile food under the ground during the winter.  


*46. capture  
**seize, catch, trap, grab - 붙잡다  
***The spy was captured in a small town after hiding there for many years.  


*47. landscape  
**scenery, scene, view - 풍경  
***Even tough it was dark, a giant moon lit the road so brightly that we could see the landscape clearly.  


*48. elaborately  
**with great detail - 정교하게  
***Because the new law is very complicated, the senator explained it elaborately.  


*49. autonomous  
**independent, self-determining - 자율적인  
***Many college students become autonomous for the first time in their lives.  


*50. boom  
**flourish, thrive, prosper, rapidly expand - 갑자기 번창하다  
***During the Civil War, the American economy boomed.  


*51. spremacy  
**dominance, predominance, ascendancy - 우위  
***In the 1920s, Henry Ford lost the battle for supremacy in the automobile industry to General Motors.  


*52. ravage  
**destory, demolish, devastate, ruin - 파괴하다  
***The large hurricane that ravaged the city of New Orleans caused extensive flooding.  


*53. authority  
**expert, master, specialist - 권위자, 대가  
***The keynote speaker of the seminar was an authority on cultural anthropology.  


*54. plug  
**fill up, stuff, pack - 메우다, 채우다  
***The townspeople plugged the old, unused well with concrete so no one would fall in accidentally.  


*55. discrepancy  
**inconsistency, disparity, dissimilarity - 불일치  
***Check your tax forms to ensure there is no discrepancy between your reported and actual income.  


*56. elucidate  
**clarify, explain, make clear - 명료하게 설명하다  
***Dr. Magness further elucidated the topic of his lecture on mink faring through a series of examples.  


# day 1
*1. exploit  
**utilize, use, make use of, take advantage of - 이용하다  
***Human rights activists have led protests against companies that exploit child labor.  


*2. account for  
**explain, justifiy, give a reason for - 설명하다  
***The suspect couldn't account for his whereabouts las night.  
**make up, compricse, constitute - 차지하다  
***Coffee exports account for nearly 60 percent of Ethiopia's ross national product  
**cause - 원인이 되다  
***Unsafe working conditions at the construction site accounted for a number of serious injuries.  


*3. particular  
**specific, special - 특정한, 특별한  
***Galileo tried to disprove one particular statement of Aristotle's.  


*4. prominent  
**noticeable, conspicuous, outstanding, remarkable - 눈에 띄는  
***Mt. Fuji is a prominent natural landmark in Japan.  
**important, leading, notable - 중요한  
***William Shaespeare is one of the most prominent figures in the history of English literature.  


*5. replenish  
**refill, restore, renew - 보충하다  
***The travelers replenished their supplies of water before crossing the desert  


*6. indigenous  
**native, aboriginal - 토착의  
***The government ignored environmental complaints by indigenous groups.  


*7. pinpoint  
**locate exactly, clearly idenifiey - 정확히 찾아내다  
***With GPS technology, it is possible to pinpoint a person's position anywhere on the planet.  
**precise, exact accurate - 정확한  
***After years of training, baseball pitchers develop pinpoint control of the ball  


*8. annihilate  
**destroy, completely remove, exterminate - 전멸시키다  
***An asteroid impact 65.5 million years ago neraly annihilated all living things on the planet.  


*9. conversely  
**on the other hand, contrarily - 반대로  
***Texting is growing more popular as a form of ocommunication, while, conversely phone calls are becoming less common.  


*10. investigate  
**examine, inquire into, look into - 조사하다  
***The police will investigate the crime scene after they interview the witnesses.  


*11. assure  
**convince, persuade, satisfy, guarantee - 확신시키다, 보장하다  
***The lawyer assured Tim that all his rights would be respected.  


*12. entire  
**whole, total, complete - 전체의, 전부의  
***Fire destroyed the entire factory, but the owner plans to rebuild it.  


*13. compensate for  
**make up for, atone for, make amends for - ~을 보상하다  
***The chemical company was ordered to pay millions of dollars to compensate for polluting the river.  
**balance, offset - 상쇄하다  
***The manager compensated for the unfair distribution of duties by assigning more work to certain staff.  


*14. postulate  
**hypothesize, suppose, claim, propose - 가정하다, 주장하다  
***Isaac Newton postulated that gravity pulls objects toward the Earth.  


*15. magnify  
**enlarge, increase, amplify, intesify - 확대하다  
***Microscopes are used to magnify objects that are not visible to the naked eye.  


*16. afford  
**give, offer, provide, grant - 주다, 제공하다  
***George's high marks in high school afforded him may oppportunities to enter a good university  


*17. conclusive  
**definitive, final, enough to settle the issue, clear - 결정적인, 확실한  
***The experiment failed to provide any conclusive evidence of the theroy's validity.  


*18. unsophisticated  
**simple, uncomplicated, not complex - 단순한, 복잡하지 않은  
***The inventor used unsophisticated technology in his flying machine, and it crashed soon after takeoff.  


*19. justified  
**right, legitimate, just, reasonable - 정당한  
***The CEO felt justified in firing the dishonest employee.  


*20. deliberate  
**intentional, designed, planned - 의도적인, 계획적인  
***The film's action scenes were deliberate attempts to grab the attention of a specific audience.  
**careful, cautious, thoughtful - 신중한  
***The parliamen reduced funcing for many programs in a deliberate effort to cut the deficit.  


*21. depend on  
**rely on, count on - 의존하다, 의지하다  
***Baby dolphins depend on their mothers to feed and protect them.  


*22. substatiate  
**confirm, prove, authenticate, verify - 입증하다  
***Robert Peary was unable to substantiate that he had reached the North Pole in 1909.  


*23. successively  
**one after another, sequentially - 잇따라서  
***The magazine editor spoke with each applicant successively to discuss their qualifications for the job.  


*24. pervasive  
**widespread, prevalent - 퍼지는, 만연하는  
***It is often argued that the pervasive influence of television on today's youth is harming society.  


*25. strenuous  
**intense, arduous, laborious - 격렬한, 힘든  
***Gina's muscles were very sore after her strenuous workout at the gym.  


*26. sleek  
**smooth, silky - 매끄러운  
***Octopuses usually have sleek skin, but it can become rough or bumpy when frightened.  


*27. invoke  
**call upon, pray to, conjure - 빌다, 기원하다  
***The Aztecs sometimes invoked their gods to bring a good harvest.  


*28. impressive  
**striking, remarkable - 인상적인, 대단한  
***This fourth of July, the city of Boston gave an impressive fireworks show that lasted alomost four hours.  


*29. conjunction  
**combination, union - 결합  
***The abundant sea life near South Africa is due to the conjuction of two major ocean currents.  


*30. astoundingly  
**incredibly, surprisngly, shockingly, astonishingly - 몹시 놀랍게도  
***The fall colors in the mountains are astouningly beautiful.  


*31. aftermath  
**result, outcome, consequence, aftereffect - 결과, 여파  
***Many nations provided aid to Thailand in response to the aftermath of the tsunami.  


*32. promptly  
**quickly, instantly, strightaway - 신속하게, 즉시  
***With modern shipping methods, people are able to receive packages promptly after placing an order.  


*33. subdue  
**defeat, conquer, vanquish - 정복하다  
***In 530 AD, Roman forces subdued the Persian army in Mesopotamia.  


*34. extant  
**surviving, in existence, existing, living, remaining -현존하는  
***The oldest extant painting of an American city is a portrait of Philadelphia in 120.  


*35. sedentary  
**statinary, settled - 주로 앉아 있는, 정착성의  
***Rosa's obesity is partly due to her sedentary occupation.  


*36. eliminate  
**get rid of, remove, discard - 없애다, 제거하다  
***The government eliminated funds for day care centers.  


*37. perfect  
**refine, improve, develop - 개선하다, 완벽하게 하다  
***Before moving to China, Greg wants to perfect his Chinese skills.  


*38. genuine  
**true, real, authentic - 진짜의  
***Janet always keeps a genuine copy of the business contract in her files.  


*39. dominant  
**prevailing, prominent, supreme, chief, ruling - 우세한, 주요한  
***The dominant theroy in healthcare is that obesity is caused by lifestyle choices.  


*40. unrivaled  
**unequaled, unparalleled, matchless, peerless - 비할 데 없는  
***The skill of Renaissance painters is unrivaled even today.  


*41. paradox  
**contradiction, absurdity - 모순된 말  
***Despite being a paradox, the saying "one must be cruel to be kind" is true in many situations.  


*42. neglect  
**ignore, disregard - 무시하다  
***Because the sailor neglected the weather warnings, he put himself in danger.  
**fail, forget - 하지 않다, 잊다  
***The tiger escaped when one of the zoo workers neglected to lock its cage.  


*43. recall  
**remember, recollect - 상기하다, 생각해내다  
***Many famous writers have kep diaries to help them recall the past  


*44. ascent  
**rise, climb, mount, go up - 올라가다  
***A few moments after the plane made a smooth departure, it swiftly ascended into the clouds.  


*45. solid  
**substantial, fixed, sturdy, robust - 확고한, 견고한  
***The case remained unsolved because there was a lack of solid evidence.  


*46. contour  
**outline - 윤곽, 외형  
***The contours of the Atlantic coast are very irregular.  


*47. inhabit  
**live in, occupy, dwell in - 거주하다  
***The first people to inhabit Cuba were the Ciboney, a friendly ribe related to the Arawak.  


*48. irrevocably  
**permanently, irreversibly, irretrievably - 돌이킬 수 없게  
***During World War 2, many historical buildings in London were irrevocably damaged.  


*49. superficially  
**apparently, not deeply, externally, on the surface - 표면적으로  
***The team-building workshop was superficially a success, but in reality, the office workers still ahd low morale.  


*50. stunted  
**underdeveloped, hindered, hampered - 발달이 저해된, 성장을 멈춘  
***The stunted trees had grown to barely three feet high.  


*51. malleable  
**flexible - 두들겨 펼 수 있는  
***When heated to high temperatures, iron and steel become malleable.  


*52. mean  
**signify, express, indicate - 의미하다, 나타내다  
***Harold's remark meant that he would retire from his position at the agency soon.  
**average - 평균  
***Household incomes in the US vary, but the mean was around $60,000 in 2004.  


*53. exclude  
**keep out, leave out - 차단하다, 배제하다  
***It's possible to set up the online forum to allow some peole to join and to exclude others.  


*54. mature  
**get older, grow up, age - 성숙해지다  
***As people mature, their personlities and interests often change.  


*55. pillar  
**column, post - 기둥  
***Classical Romean architecture featured several outdoor pillars surrounding a building.  


*56. encroachment  
**invasion, intrusion - 잠식, 침입  
***The encroachment of genetically modified organisms into the food supply worries many consumers.  


*57. no wonder  
**unsurprisingly, unsurpring - 놀랄 일이 아닌  
***Over eight million people live in New York City, so no wonder it is crowded.  


















