---
layout: post
title:  "Eng Speaking"
date:   2022-03-23 12:17:10 +0900
categories: study
---




{% highlight ruby %}


*For improving speaking skill  



{% endhighlight %}


# Introduction
I personally think ~is better.  
or  
I agree(disagree) that the following statement.  
There are some reasons.  


# Body
First, ..  
(The first reason is that~.)  
To be specific,(What I mean is)(This is because) ~  


Second, ..  
(The second reason is that~.)  
For example,(In my case,) ~  


# Conclusion  
For these reasons, ~  


------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Introduction
From the announcement(letter), we know ~  
The woman believes that it's a good idea for two reasons.  
or  
However, the woman doesn't believe that it's a good idea for two reasons.  


# Body
First, she thinks that ~.  
(The first reason why she supports(is for)/opposes(is against) this idea is that~.)  
This is because(This means, For example) ~  


Second, she mentions that~.  
(The second reason whye she supports(is for)/oppose(is against) this idea is that~.  
This is because(This means, For example)~.  


# Conclusion
These are the reasons why she is pleased with the announcement.  
or  
These are the reasons why she is displeased with the announcement.  


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Introduction
The reading passage gives an overview of (subject), which is (definition of subject)  
The professor illustrates this concept in his lecture by using two examples.  


# Body
First, the professor introduces~.  
(The first example the professor introduces in the lecture is ~.)  
To be specific,(This is becuase, However, In the end),  


Second, the professor talks about ~  
(The second example the professor mentions in the lecture is ~.)  
To be specific(This is because, However, In the end),  


# Conclusion
These are the exampels of ~.  


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Introduction
The professor talks about~.  


# Body
First, the professor introduces~.  
(The first strategy the professor introduces in the lectre is ~.)  
(First point) is(refers to, means)~  
For example, ~  


Second, the professor describes~.  
(The second strategy the professor describes in the lecture is~)  
(Second point) is(refers to, menas) ~  
For instance, ~  


# Conclusion
These are two strategies(types, factors) of ~  























